Finance Cluster Exam

ACT - Accounting Applications Series Event

BFS – Business Finance Series Event

FTDM - Financial Services Team Decision Making Event

INSTRUCTIONS: This is a timed, comprehensive exam for the occupational area

identified above. Do not open this booklet until instructed to do so by the

testing monitor. You will have _____ minutes to complete all questions.

CAUTION: Posting these materials on a website is a copyright violation.

This comprehensive exam was developed by the MBAResearch Center exclusively for DECA’s 

2013-2014 Competitive Events Program. Items have been randomly selected from the 

MBAResearch Test-Item Bank and represent a variety of instructional areas. Performance 

indicators for this exam are at the prerequisite, career-sustaining, and marketing specialist 

levels. A descriptive test key, including question sources and answer rationale, has been 

provided the DECA chartered association advisor.

Curriculum Center®

herein is the exclusive property of MBAResearch. Items are licensed to DECA only for use as 

configured within this exam, in its entirety. Use of individual items for any purpose other than as 

specifically authorized is prohibited. Possession of this exam, without written authorization, 

under any other circumstances is a copyright violation. Posting to inter- or intranet sites is 

specifically forbidden unless written permission is obtained prior to posting. Report violations to 

DECA at 703.860.5000 and MBAResearch at 800.448.0398. Permission for reprinting is granted 

to DECA chartered associations authorized by DECA Inc.

DECA Inc. will impose sanctions on chapters and chartered associations for violations of this 

policy up to and including disqualification of competitors and chapters from further participation.

 Copyright © 2014 by Marketing & Business Administration Research and 

, Columbus, Ohio (dba MBAResearch). Each individual test item contained 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 1

1. A jurisdiction's judicial system strives to treat all parties fairly by

A. following legal procedure. C. interrogating witnesses. 

B. implementing flexible laws. D. developing contracts. 

2. Most nations' federal agencies must function within certain limits identified in the specific enabling 

legislation that gave the agencies their powers. These limits on the federal agencies' activities are an 

example of

A. statutory control. C. judicial review. 

B. political control. D. informational control. 

3. Financial managers who are legally responsible for their clients' investments must demonstrate fiduciary 

responsibility, which involves

A. speaking with their clients once a year to review their portfolios. 

B. selling financial products that generate the highest commissions. 

C. making risky investments without their clients' knowledge. 

D. acting in the best interests of their clients. 

4. Which of the following is an estate-tax deduction:

A. Valuable art and collectibles left to children 

B. Property passing directly to the surviving spouse 

C. Charitable contributions that are unqualified 

D. Money left to friends or distant relatives 

5. An individual or business can minimize capital losses on investment property by

A. obtaining a long-term loan. C. claiming the loss as a tax deduction. 

B. liquidating remaining assets. D. renegotiating property insurance premiums. 

6. In addition to ensuring that the company is adhering to all rules and regulations affecting business 

operations, what else is a chief compliance officer often responsible for doing?

A. Determining the company's point of diminishing returns 

B. Evaluating the company's different channels of distribution 

C. Investigating possible conflicts of interest within the company 

D. Preparing and submitting the company's financial statements 

7. What is an advantage to businesses of using virtual-auditor technology?

A. The ability to monitor competitors' strategies 

B. The continuous inspection of transactional data 

C. The capability of streamlining workflow 

D. The unlimited access to credit information 

8. The most significant barriers that many companies face when implementing integrated governance, risk, 

and compliance (GRC) technology are the perceived

A. high cost and overabundance of adequate technology solutions. 

B. high cost and lack of evidence of return on investment. 

C. high cost and overdependence on a single GRC platform. 

D. centralization of business risk and lack of adequate technology solutions. 

9. While conducting a staff meeting, the speaker noticed that Colin was texting on his cellphone. Colin's 

nonverbal behavior indicates that he was

A. annoyed. C. listening to the speaker. 

B. distracted. D. interested in the topic. 

10. A recommended way to find out why the caller has phoned your business is to

A. ask the caller, "How may I help you?" C. ask the caller, "What did you want?"

B. wait for the caller to ask questions. D. answer promptly with a friendly greeting.

Copyright © 2014 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®

, Columbus, Ohio

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 2

11. When organizing information to present in a business report, it is effective to 

A. determine the purpose. C. remain objective. 

B. interpret the data. D. develop an outline. 

12. As Kevin edits a professional report, he is not sure whether to italicize or underscore a book title. To 

obtain the correct information, Kevin should 

A. seek a coworker's opinion. 

B. refer to the appropriate publisher's style manual. 

C. look up the information in a current dictionary. 

D. identify the readers' preferences. 

13. An effective technique to use when writing persuasive messages to customers is to

A. appeal to their needs. C. make a prediction.

B. demand their attention. D. use aggressive words. 

14. When participating in staff meetings with employees, the primary role of the department manager is to 

A. expand the agenda. C. set time limits. 

B. follow formal protocol. D. guide the discussion. 

15. Businesses must keep in mind that word-of-mouth advertising can be

A. bought. C. negative. 

B. avoided. D. inconsequential. 

16. When a business communicates customer-centric values and ideals to its employees on a consistent 

basis, it is developing its

A. organizational structure. C. technology. 

B. corporate culture. D. trademarks. 

17. Which of the following scenarios best illustrates a finance professional's commitment to customer 

service:

A. Patricia wears a business suit every day, including casual Fridays. 

B. Ann strives to solve customer problems promptly and accurately.

C. Jake takes a cellphone call while meeting with a customer. 

D. Gennifer uses technical jargon when speaking with customers. 

18. A stock broker is using Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology to learn more about his 

typical customer's purchasing pattern. The stock broker is using CRM technology to analyze the typical 

customer

A. vintage. C. trajectory. 

B. duration. D. touch point. 

19. What is the primary purpose of data-cleansing processes?

A. To correct non-response errors C. To maintain a useful customer database 

B. To control the employees' intranet access D. To monitor the system for security breaches 

20. When producers use the best combination of resources, consumers are more likely to get goods and 

services that

A. they want. C. cost more. 

B. they do not need. D. are best known.

21. Government protects consumers by establishing

A. a measure of effectiveness in government. C. rules to generate competition.

B. requirements for product testing. D. laws to monitor the growth of business.

22. What type of tax do businesses collect for items such as books, flowers, and shoes?

A. Income C. Estate

B. Sales D. Property

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 3

23. As office manager of a small consulting firm, Isabelle is in charge of processing payroll, tracking accounts 

payable and receivable, negotiating terms with vendors, and preparing a variety of company reports. This 

is an example of

A. job enlargement. C. task specialization. 

B. job rotation. D. specialization by trade. 

24. The items that the local fish market sells to customers are included in which of the following categories of 

gross domestic product:

A. Gross private domestic investment C. Personal consumption expenditures

B. Net exports of goods and services D. Government purchases of goods and services

25. When the inflation rate __________, the interest rates tend to __________.

A. increases, increase C. decreases, increase 

B. increases, stabilize D. stabilizes, increase 

26. Which of the following tips will keep you from being too hard on yourself when assessing strengths and 

weaknesses:

A. Minimize your strengths C. Identify one strength for every weakness 

B. Find a new weakness every day D. Review your weaknesses each day 

27. A customer asked, "What ties would you suggest with this shirt?" The salesperson responded, "Let me 

show you some that would look wonderful with it." The salesperson is demonstrating

A. extensive product knowledge. C. boredom and indifference. 

B. a negative attitude. D. interest and enthusiasm. 

28. A person who is willing to act without having to be told to do so is said to possess the trait of

A. tact. C. initiative. 

B. empathy. D. selfishness.

29. A business benefits from having employees who practice empathetic behavior because of the 

__________ it creates.

A. impressive image C. increased cooperation 

B. unharmonious relations D. departmental friction

30. Which of the following statements supports the concept of cultural individualism:

A. The Chinese culture values group decision making and a "we're in this together" attitude. 

B. The Latin American culture tends to view time in a more relaxed manner than other cultures. 

C. Western cultures embrace the idea that working hard will reap personal rewards and fulfillment. 

D. Middle-Eastern cultures tend to emphasize strict gender roles rather than diversity. 

31. Refusing requests can be a particularly tough task

A. at work. C. for an aggressive person. 

B. when you are sick. D. during the summer. 

32. Organizational vision and team vision differ in that team vision

A. is determined before organizational vision. 

B. is often more specific than organizational vision. 

C. is often more general than organizational vision. 

D. does not complement organizational vision. 

33. What type of credit is commonly used to purchase large, expensive items such as cars?

A. Revolving C. Budget

B. Regular D. Installment 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 4

34. Who is legally responsible for repaying a bank loan if the loan borrower fails to make payments as 

indicated in the loan contract?

A. Treasury Department C. Co-signer 

B. Credit union D. Debt collectors 

35. One reason why some businesses make investments and hold them for less than one year is to

A. reduce tax obligations. C. obtain short-term capital. 

B. monitor long-term wealth. D. control inflation rates. 

36. Zach invested $300 in the stock market. With the stock market's average yearly gain of 10 percent, his 

original $300 grew to $330 after one year. In two years' time, his $300 became $363. The year after that, 

his original investment had become $399. Zach's investment grew as a result of

A. banking services. C. compounding. 

B. opportunity cost. D. globalization. 

37. Which of the following records should individuals keep that contains information about their investments:

A. Deposit C. Logistics 

B. Purchase D. Credit 

38. Which of the following is an example of a non-deposit financial institution:

A. Mutual savings bank C. Commercial bank 

B. Credit union D. Mortgage company 

39. Deposit-taking institutions are commonly responsible for

A. raising funds for clients by issuing securities. 

B. making payments on behalf of savers to creditors. 

C. carrying out regulatory and supervisory functions. 

D. using funds from insurance premiums to offer loans. 

40. How are very small companies and companies with poor credit ratings most likely to trade their stock?

A. On the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB) 

B. On the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) 

C. On the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX) 

D. On the American Stock Exchange (AMEX) 

41. A primary factor that has led to the consolidation of financial firms is the desire

A. to lower risks. C. for fewer products. 

B. for fewer assets. D. to lower costs. 

42. What type of financial firm offers multiple types of financial products using one pool of capital?

A. Consolidated cross-product parent company C. Financial holding company 

B. Universal bank and trust corporation D. Fully integrated financial services provider 

43. Which of the following is an example of arbitrage:

A. An individual buys 10 shares of stock for $150 per share on one market, and immediately sells 

B. An individual earns interest on his/her money by agreeing to leave it in a financial institution for a 

C. A business places a percentage of its income into a retirement account for employees. 

D. A business sells corporate bonds to obtain funds to finance major expansion efforts. 

44. When the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increases sharply, stock prices usually

A. fluctuate daily. C. stay the same. 

B. rise. D. fall. 

each share for $200 on another market. 

certain timeframe. 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 5

45. Financial globalization helps investors to reduce their exposure to 

A. regulatory liberalization. C. business cycle risks. 

B. speculative bubbles. D. capital appreciation.

46. Which of the following is a question that investors should ask prospective financial planners:

A. How many references do I need to provide? C. What is your income? 

B. How are your fees structured? D. Where did you attend school? 

47. What is an example of an internal stock information resource?

A. Brokerage firm research C. A company's annual report 

B. The ValueLine Investment Survey D. A financial website portal 

48. If a stock price rises and falls sharply within a 52-week period, it is said to be

A. volatile. C. healthy. 

B. stable. D. solid. 

49. The creation of new products which can cause the demand cycle for other products to be shortened is an 

example of ___________ risk.

A. economic C. natural

B. controlled D. human

50. A manager is most likely to use financial information when

A. researching the demographics of a new target market. 

B. determining resources available to fund a new project. 

C. calculating the number of on-the-job injuries in the past year. 

D. establishing lines of authority within an organization. 

51. What should accountants demonstrate when collecting accounting information and preparing financial 

documents?

A. Professional integrity C. A collaborative mindset 

B. An innovative attitude D. Empathy and flexibility 

52. Which of the following situations could be prevented through the use of a financial-information 

management system:

A. A financial institution's server crashing and preventing employees from entering customer 

B. Customer service sending brochures about the company's loans to people who've just taken out 

C. Different versions of a database application being incompatible so that financial information 

D. Elimination of mergers and acquisitions in the finance industry 

53. Which of the following statements regarding the financial-information management function is true:

A. The financial-information management function's responsibilities have declined in recent years. 

B. The financial-information management function is an electronic, web-based activity. 

C. A financial-information management system can be used to support operations management 

D. Data in a financial-information management system are typically at least four to six months old. 

54. How can a business maintain its ethical responsibility of protecting the privacy of its customers' financial 

information?

A. Develop collection procedures C. Monitor competitors' activities 

B. Implement security policies D. Review inventory systems 

payments 

loans with the company 

cannot be shared 

decisions. 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 6

55. More consistent and up-to-date data, faster response to queries, and economies of scale are benefits of 

using a(n) __________ to store financial data.

A. intrusion detection system C. central data repository 

B. disparate data system D. financial holding company 

56. What is a primary purpose of data mining?

A. To calculate statistical ratios C. To collect data from vendors

B. To identify hidden patterns D. To resolve unidentified problems

57. Alyssa is starting a small business out of her home. When she accesses a business "how-to" website, 

Alyssa finds software downloads and printable worksheets that will help her plan and manage her 

business's income and expenses. The software and worksheets are types of

A. legal data. C. statistical information. 

B. budgeting tools. D. organizational charts. 

58. Primary functions of basic budgeting software applications include forecasting and

A. sequencing. C. scheduling. 

B. materials allocation. D. debt management. 

59. Businesses often use computer-spreadsheet software for “what-if” financial planning by plugging in 

different numerical data into formulas, which provide possible

A. distribution methods. C. financial outcomes. 

B. production strategies. D. accounting standards. 

60. What is a drawback of using suffix trees in database management systems?

A. They use a lot of space. C. They support disjointed substring queries. 

B. They are unspecialized data structures. D. They are balanced. 

61. Which of the following is a likely consequence of reporting inaccurate financial data to lenders and 

investors:

A. Civil and/or criminal penalties C. Two-for-one stock splits 

B. A large influx of capital D. An economic contraction 

62. Investors and financial analysts are most likely to study a publicly-traded company's financial statements 

A. assess the effectiveness of the firm's risk-management system. 

B. identify new products that the firm plans to introduce next year. 

C. determine the size and makeup of the firm's workforce. 

D. measure the firm's competitiveness and performance. 

63. Which of the following activities would occur in finance rather than in accounting:

A. Processing accounts receivable C. Securing business credit 

B. Preparing payroll D. Developing depreciation schedules 

64. Which of the following accounting systems provides businesses with a better picture of their net profits for 

each accounting period by matching income earned in a period against the expenses of the period:

A. Perpetual C. Managerial 

B. Cash D. Accrual 

65. Auto mechanics and attorneys are likely to use a __________ cost accounting system.

A. process C. consumer 

B. job order D. cyclic 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 7

66. Which of the following is essential to the identification of trends in financial data for a horizontal analysis:

A. Data from a zero-based budget 

B. Data from the most recent financial report 

C. Data in a Statement of Cash Flows 

D. Data in financial reports from multiple time periods 

67. By analyzing a customer's financial information, a finance professional should be able to

A. develop a financial strategy to help the customer. 

B. declare Chapter 11 bankruptcy for the customer. 

C. protect the security of the customer's financial information. 

D. determine the customer's newest target market. 

68. When a business reviews a customer's credit application, it is evaluating risks associated with the

A. customer's ability to pay. C. customer's beneficiaries. 

B. business's accounting processes. D. business's reporting strategies. 

69. Which of the following is a reason to analyze financial data:

A. To understand accounting treatment 

B. To identify products which need to be recalled 

C. To determine a business's qualitative characteristics 

D. To develop financial models 

70. What should a business analyze to determine if it has the necessary funds available to pay its creditors 

for the next two weeks?

A. Capital-investment plan C. Cash-flow statement

B. Business plan D. Mutual-funds statement

71. When HR management executives participate in a company's long-range planning efforts, they are taking 

part in

A. financial analysis. C. budgeting. 

B. marketing. D. strategic management. 

72. Which of the following is an environmental factor that influences a business's buying behavior:

A. Business structure C. Subculture 

B. Competition D. Family 

73. One way for a person to verify the reliability of an online article's information is by

A. gathering internal reports from the company's database. 

B. evaluating the author's writing style. 

C. comparing the information with other articles about the topic. 

D. asking others for their opinions. 

74. Global positioning systems (GPS) rely on the use of what type of technology?

A. Satellite technology C. Cellphone technology 

B. Voice over Internet Protocol D. The Internet 

75. Internet Explorer is an example of __________ software.

A. cookie C. computer server 

B. bookmark D. web browser 

76. Which of the following is a business trend that might affect a local company:

A. Social behavior C. Global competition

B. Domestic transportation D. Physical environment 

77. Which of the following is a factor that relates to the government category of an environmental scan: 

A. Import/Export regulations C. Stage of the business cycle 

B. Religious affiliation D. Advances in technology 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 8

78. Determine the mode for a customer-survey question using the following statistical information: 

7, 5, 3, 7, 7, 9, 5, 7, 9, 9

A. 9 C. 5 

B. 3 D. 7 

79. Kelly works at a manufacturing plant that produces laminated furniture and accessories. Kelly believes 

that the fumes from adhesive used in the production process is making many of the plant's employees 

sick. To which of the following organizations can Kelly anonymously file complaints about workplace 

safety and health hazards?

A. OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for 

B. BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics)/Statistics Canada 

C. FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration)/CFIA (Canadian Food Inspection Agency) 

D. HHS (Department of Health and Human Services)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for Occupational 

80. Which of the following is a true statement about identifying project deliverables:

A. A project manager needs to identify only one deliverable per project. 

B. It's important to get expected deliverables in writing from the client. 

C. It's a task that also includes creating a schedule for finishing the deliverables. 

D. It's a task that occurs about halfway through the project-planning process. 

81. Doormats, carpeting, telephones, and cleaning chemicals are all items that an office might buy for

A. negotiations. C. business use.

B. production. D. competitive bidding.

82. Which of the following is the first step in the bidding process:

A. Negotiating terms 

B. Developing a request for proposal 

C. Identifying needs 

D. Assessing each bidder's strengths and weaknesses 

83. If a business's fixed costs are high in relation to its variable costs, a major increase in sales with very little 

increase in variable costs should

A. change the break-even point. C. reduce fixed costs. 

B. increase net profit. D. increase the cost of goods sold.

84. A financial institution that fails to remove out-of-date promotional materials or empty sign holders from 

counters is neglecting important __________ activities.

A. security C. housekeeping 

B. maintenance D. remodeling

85. Which of the following terms is often used to define creativity:

A. A setting C. A phase

B. An element D. A process 

86. Greg is 23 and just started his first job out of college. He wants to work on the New York Stock 

Exchange by the time he's 40 years old. What type of goal is this? 

A. Long term; decided by your boss C. Short term; decided by yourself 

B. Long term; decided by yourself D. Short term; decided by your boss

87. Maria's teacher says she has an aptitude for science. Which of the following may explain why Maria has 

an aptitude for science:

A. Maria's father is a microbiologist. 

B. She and her friends attend lectures at the science center each month. 

C. She received a microscope for a gift last year. 

D. Maria believes that it is important to protect the environment. 

Occupational Health and Safety) 

Health and Safety)

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 9

88. Which of the following is a financial concern that entrepreneurs often face when starting new businesses:

A. Long working hours C. Shorter vacations 

B. Irregular paychecks D. Lower production standards 

89. How do credit unions differ from commercial banks? 

A. They are created and owned by members. C. They offer higher fees. 

B. They offer higher interest rates. D. There are no requirements for membership. 

90. One of the main reasons why businesses participate in trade shows is to

A. research their market. C. promote their products. 

B. meet their competitors. D. train their salespeople.

91. Because regulations and financial products change, financial planners are usually required to take 

continuing-education classes every year so they can

A. maintain their certification. C. train their employees. 

B. enhance their reputation. D. start new businesses. 

92. Who is most likely going to need a college degree and a financial certification to perform his/her job 

duties? 

A. Ted Weston, Production Specialist, National Express International 

B. Ken Dusseldorf, Lead Teller, Main Street Bank 

C. Lola McGinn, Bookkeeper, Toothman Dental Office 

D. Carol Hershberger, Financial Analyst, CCB Corporation 

93. Which of the following professional relationships is most likely to be successful:

A. Competing financial planners socialize at professional association meetings. 

B. An investment planner takes donuts to a tax accountant every Monday. 

C. A trust officer sends birthday and holiday cards to her clients. 

D. A real estate agent and an insurance broker refer clients to each other. 

94. Which of the following is an ethical issue resulting from internal risks:

A. Selecting an insurance company that considers paying fines a cost of doing business 

B. Revealing discounted expenses 

C. Providing incomplete data for audits 

D. Boycotting the use of an insurance company that has a reputation for not correcting its mistakes 

95. To reduce the risk of loss due to fire or power outages, a financial business should protect its computer 

data by

A. conducting backup procedures. C. implementing an authorization process. 

B. using encryption techniques. D. monitoring data-transmission rates. 

96. What risk is being avoided when financial institutions use cloud computing?

A. Loss of customers risk C. Return on investment risk 

B. Pure risk D. Speculative risk 

97. How does forming a captive insurance company typically impact a corporation's federal tax liability?

A. Eliminates the corporation's state tax liabilities 

B. Increases tax due on the captive's loss reserves 

C. Increases the corporation's sales tax liabilities 

D. Reduces tax due on the captive's premiums 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM 10

98. An employee with the DPB Company left a small box in the middle of the business's reception area. 

Unfortunately, a client did not see the box, fell, and was seriously injured. Now, the DPB Company must 

pay several thousand dollars to cover the client's medical bills. This hurts the company's financial well-
being. What internal steps could the company have taken to control the risk associated with this type of 

financial loss?

A. Implement and monitor safety policies 

B. Purchase and maintain a crime insurance policy 

C. Review and evaluate health insurance options 

D. Develop and follow a detailed business plan 

99. Why are financial institutions using tokenization?

A. To provide incentives for increased investing 

B. To create credit cards 

C. To protect online transactions 

D. To overcome government-regulated quotas 

100. A small-business manager who considers how a one-person reduction in office staff could impact the rest 

of his/her company is demonstrating

A. job-knowledge skills. C. interpersonal skills. 

B. technical skills. D. conceptual skills.
