Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 11

1. A

Following legal procedure. Legal procedure refers to the methods that are used to protect an individual's 

or business's legal rights. Each jurisdiction's court system requires that certain procedures be followed to 

ensure fair treatment to both the plaintiff and the defendant. This involves following legal procedures to 

file complaints with the court, to serve documents to the opposition, and to exhibit proper behavior with 

witnesses and jurors during court proceedings. The purpose of legal procedures is to provide consistent 

and fair treatment to all parties involved in a legal dispute. The judicial system does not develop contracts 

or implement laws; it rules on contract validity by interpreting laws.

SOURCE: BL:070

SOURCE: Answers.com. (n.d.). Procedural law. Retrieved January 6, 2009, from 

2. A

Statutory control. Four methods used to limit and regulate the activities of federal agencies are statutory 

control, political control, judicial review, and informational control. In many countries, the legislative 

branch has the power to pass statutes (laws) establishing federal agencies. This enabling legislation 

often identifies limits to the agencies' powers. In other words, these statutes control the agencies' 

activities. The government wields political control over these agencies by providing (or withholding) 

funding, by approving (or speaking out against) individuals nominated to lead these agencies, and by 

amending the agencies' enabling legislation. The courts can also control federal agencies by reviewing 

and deciding the legality of the agencies' actions. Finally, the public can indirectly control federal 

agencies through information. Most federal agencies are required to provide the public with information 

on different topics. After reviewing the information, private citizens can take action to influence the 

activities of these federal agencies.

SOURCE: BL:074

SOURCE: Beatty, J.F., & Samuelson, S.S. (2008). Essentials of business law (3rd ed.) [pp. 94-98]. 

3. D

Acting in the best interests of their clients. In the financial industry, a fiduciary is a financial professional 

who has been given legal authority to make financial transactions on behalf of an individual or business—

the owner of the financial product (e.g., stock). Because the fiduciary has been given legal authority to 

act on behalf of a client, s/he must act in the best interest of the client. Fiduciary responsibility involves 

making wise financial decisions and obtaining financial products that will help the client achieve his/her 

financial goals. A fiduciary does not focus on selling products that generate the highest commissions or 

make risky investments without the client's knowledge. A responsible, ethical fiduciary is transparent and 

trustworthy and continuously communicates with her/his clients rather than communicating with them 

only once a year. 

SOURCE: BL:133

SOURCE: Sais, J., & Sais, M. (2013, June 28). Meeting your fiduciary responsibility. Retrieved October 

4. B

Property passing directly to the surviving spouse. An estate tax is a tax on the fair-market value of assets 

that are transferred to another person upon the owner's death. In some situations, beneficiaries can 

obtain estate-tax deductions. The marital deduction is a deduction that applies when the deceased 

individual's property passes directly to the surviving spouse. Estate-tax deductions apply to some 

qualified charitable contributions. Valuable art, collectibles, and money that are left to children, relatives, 

and friends are not tax deductible under estate-tax code.

SOURCE: BL:134

SOURCE: Internal Revenue Service. (2013, October 23). Frequently asked questions on estate taxes.

http://www.answers.com/topic/procedural-law

Mason, OH: Thomson/South-Western.

25, 2013, from http://www.investopedia.com/articles/08/fiduciary-responsiblity.asp#

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

http://www.irs.gov/businesses/small/article/0,,id=108143,00.html#5

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 12

5. C

Claiming the loss as a tax deduction. The difference between the cost of an investment and the selling 

price of that same investment is either a capital gain or capital loss. The federal government taxes the 

capital gains on investments. If an investment suffers a loss in value in relation to its purchase price, the 

government allows the owner to claim the loss as a tax deduction. Liquidating remaining assets, 

obtaining a loan, and renegotiating lower insurance premiums may provide the investor with needed cash 

or savings, but these actions do not change or minimize the monetary loss on the investment property.

SOURCE: BL:134

SOURCE: Internal Revenue Service. (2011, February 18). 10 facts about capital gains and losses. 

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.irs.gov/uac/Ten-Important-Facts-About-Capital-
Gains-and-Losses

6. C

Investigating possible conflicts of interest within the company. The chief compliance officer is responsible 

for developing policies and procedures that ensure that her/his company is adhering to all rules and 

regulations affecting business operations. In addition, s/he is often in charge of investigating and 

managing conflicts of interest within the company. These conflicts of interest might arise between the 

business and its customers, among the business's customers, or among business functions. Such 

conflicts of interest have the potential to interfere with the business's compliance with organizational, 

industry, and government regulations. Members of the business's marketing department are likely to 

evaluate the company's different channels of distribution. Operations management determines the 

company's point of diminishing returns, possibly with the accounting or finance department's assistance. 

The accounting department prepares and submits the company's financial statements to interested 

parties such as the SEC.

SOURCE: CC:003

SOURCE: Barclay Simpson Recruitment Consultants. (n.d.). An introduction to financial services 

compliance. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.barclaysimpson.com/document_

uploaded/Intro%20FS%20Compl%20publication.pdf

7. B

The continuous inspection of transactional data. A virtual auditor is a type of compliance technology that 

uses multiple reasoning processes to help the business identify errors and compliance violations. The 

advantage to using virtual-auditor technology is that it is continuously inspecting and reviewing financial 

transactions and processes in real time, so the business can identify and correct problems quickly. A 

business does not use virtual-auditor technology to monitor competitors' activities or to allow unlimited 

access to confidential credit information. A business might use project-management software to 

streamline and track the workflow of a project.

SOURCE: CC:004

SOURCE: Taylor, P. (2006, September 19). IT's role in financial process improvements. Retrieved 

October 25, 2013, from http://www.information-management.com/specialreports/20060919/

1063493-1.html

8. B

High cost and lack of evidence of return on investment. Although GRC technology can be very beneficial 

for business, many companies encounter difficulties when implementing the technology. The most 

significant barriers are the perceived high cost of the technology and a lack of evidence that the 

technology will provide a sufficient return on investment. Other barriers include a lack of adequate 

technology solutions, the absence of a common risk management/compliance “language,” and poor 

change management during the implementation process. Benefits of GRC technology include the use of 

a single GRC platform, increased communication among risk management teams, and centralized risk 

and compliance oversight. Centralized business risk is neither a barrier nor a benefit of GRC technology.

SOURCE: CC:004

SOURCE: Gracyalny, S. (2011, January 11). Integrated GRC: Understanding the benefits and 

beginning the journey to obtain them. Retrieved October 24, 2013, from 

http://www.corporatecomplianceinsights.com/integrated-grc-by-scott-gracyalny/

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 13

9. B

Distracted. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that involve gestures and facial 

expressions rather than words. Nonverbal cues often express what the senders and recipients think 

about their messages. If Colin was interested in the meeting topic or was listening to the speaker, he 

would be directing his attention to the speaker. Since Colin was looking at his phone and text messaging, 

he was distracted and was probably not paying attention to what the speaker was saying. The speaker 

likely felt that Colin's nonverbal behavior was rude and inconsiderate. There is not enough information to 

determine if Colin was annoyed.

SOURCE: CO:059

SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [pp. 54-57]. Upper 

10. A

Ask the caller, "How may I help you?" This question requires callers to identify the purpose of their calls. 

It is courteous, since you cannot provide assistance until you know what is needed. Asking, "What did 

you want?" sounds abrupt and impolite. Waiting for callers to ask questions would waste your time and 

that of the caller. Answering promptly with a friendly greeting is a guideline for giving good telephone 

service, but would not identify the purpose of the call.

SOURCE: CO:114

SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., Steinauer, M.H., & Jones, M.J. (2006). Communicating for 

11. D

Develop an outline. It is necessary to organize information in order to present it in a logical manner in a 

business report. An effective way to organize information is to develop an outline. The outline serves as 

the plan for the report, and helps the writer arrange the information in the order that will make the 

message clear to readers. A writer determines the purpose of the report before gathering and interpreting 

the data. Then, it is appropriate to develop an outline. It is important to remain objective while writing the 

business report.

SOURCE: CO:086

SOURCE: Leskiar, R.V., & Flatley, M.E. (2005). Basic business communication: Skills for empowering 

12. B

Refer to the appropriate publisher's style manual. To provide consistency throughout written documents, 

certain businesses or industries often follow a specific writing style, such as Associated Press (AP) or 

Chicago Manual. Each style varies and often uses different styles and standards. For example, one style 

may italicize book titles and another style may underscore book titles. Most style publishers post style 

information on their websites, as well as in physical manuals or reference books. The best way to verify a 

specific style or format is to consult the publisher's manual or website. Coworkers, dictionaries, and 

readers are not the most reliable sources for publishing styles and standards. 

SOURCE: CO:089

SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., & Thill, J.V. (2008). Business communication today (9th ed.) [p. A-21]. Upper 

13. A

Appeal to their needs. The purpose of writing persuasive messages is to convince customers to do 

something, such as buy a product. To encourage them to take the correct action, it is important to appeal 

to their needs and show them why it is a benefit to do what you want them to do. For example, if you 

want customers to buy a new product, explain how that product will benefit them, such as by saving 

money or speeding up production. Customers are more likely to respond favorably when they understand 

how their needs will be satisfied. It is not effective to use aggressive words or demand a customer's 

attention as these techniques often offend customers. Making a prediction is not as effective as stating a 

fact or providing logical evidence to support your message.

SOURCE: CO:031

SOURCE: Hyden, J.S., Jordan, A.K., & Steinauer, M.H. (2007). Communicating for success (3rd ed.) 

Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

success (3rd ed.) [pp. 85-88]. Mason, OH: Thomson South-Western. 

the Internet generation (10th ed.) [pp. 280-282]. Boston: McGraw-Hill/Irwin.

Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

[pp. 333-334]. Cincinnati: South-Western Educational.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 14

14. D

Guide the discussion. If a business is large, each department often has regular staff meetings so the 

manager can communicate important information to employees and keep them informed about current 

issues. When participating in these staff meetings, the department manager is the leader. The leader is 

the person who runs the meeting, guides the discussion, and keeps the employees focused on the 

agenda. As the leader, it may be necessary for the manager to encourage employees to participate or 

prevent arguments. While guiding the meeting, the manager may set time limits or follow a formal 

protocol; however these are secondary considerations or activities rather than the primary role. Managers 

should follow the agenda they set for the staff meetings rather than expand it during the meeting.

SOURCE: CO:063

SOURCE: Clark, B., Basteri, C.G., Gassen, C., & Walker, M. (2014). Marketing dynamics (3rd ed.) 

15. C

Negative. Businesses must keep in mind that word-of-mouth advertising can be negative as well as 

positive. It's important for businesses to build positive customer relations so word-of-mouth advertising 

will work in their favor, since it cannot be avoided, cannot be bought, and is very powerful. 

SOURCE: CR:003

SOURCE: CR LAP 1—Accentuate the Positive (Nature of Customer Relations)

16. B

Corporate culture. When a business communicates customer-centric values and ideals to its employees 

on a consistent basis, it is developing its corporate culture. A customer-centric corporate culture is 

essential for CRM success. Communicating values and ideals to employees does not develop 

organizational structure, technology, or trademarks.

SOURCE: CR:016

SOURCE: CR LAP 2—Know When to Hold 'Em (Nature of Customer Relationship Management)

17. B

Ann strives to solve customer problems promptly and accurately. To meet or exceed customer 

expectations, finance professionals should respond promptly to customer needs, requests, and problems. 

While wearing a business suit every day can help to demonstrate a finance professional's commitment to 

her/his job, doing so doesn't necessarily demonstrate the person's commitment to customer service. 

Finance professionals should not take cellphone calls while meeting with customers, nor should they use 

technical jargon. Instead, they should speak in simple terms that customers will understand.

SOURCE: CR:012

SOURCE: MindTools. (1996-2013). Customer service mindset: Getting passionate about satisfying 

[pp. 570-571]. Tinley Park, IL: The Goodheart-Willcox Co.

others. Retrieved on October 24, 2014, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newCDV_77.htm

18. C

Trajectory. CRM technology is frequently used to measure and analyze a business's typical customer 

trajectory, which is a pattern of purchases. Duration is the length of time that a customer stays a 

customer. A vintage is a group of customers that are similar in some way. For instance, they might be 

grouped together because they all became a business's customers in the same year. Touch points are all 

of the opportunities that a business has to connect with customers and reinforce its brand image.

SOURCE: CR:024

SOURCE: Fournier, S. & Avery, J. (2011, March 23). Putting the 'relationship' back into CRM. Retrieved 

October 25, 2013, from http://sloanreview.mit.edu/article/putting-the-relationship-back-into-
crm/

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 15

19. C

To maintain a useful customer database. The data-cleansing process removes duplicate records, 

updates expired data, and completes incomplete data fields. An effective data cleansing will result in a 

database that contains useful, relevant, and accurate data. Having a "clean" database helps the 

organization process good information to make sound business decisions. Businesses use a variety of 

security software and procedures to control employees' access to their intranets and to monitor security 

breaches. Businesses do not use data-cleansing processes to correct non-response errors on surveys.

SOURCE: CR:024

SOURCE: NEDCAR (2012, August 14). Purpose of data cleaning. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

20. A

They want. Producers are responsible for choosing and using the best combination of resources. As 

examples, they must decide if the number of workers is adequate; if the buildings, supplies, and 

equipment are suitable; and if there are enough raw materials to produce their goods. Through such 

actions, producers provide consumers with the types and quality of goods and services that they want. 

Producers should try to keep their costs down but should not always purchase the least expensive 

products if quality will be sacrificed. Likewise, purchasing the best-known resources may not be 

appropriate for some businesses. 

SOURCE: EC:003

SOURCE: EC LAP 14—Be Resourceful (Economic Resources)

21. B

Requirements for product testing. The government has passed many laws intended to protect 

consumers. In addition to requiring product testing, these laws prohibit false advertising and deceptive 

labeling, make food inspection mandatory, and set standards of safety in building construction. None of 

these laws are intended to monitor business growth or to generate competition. Making government 

effective does not necessarily protect consumers.

SOURCE: EC:008

SOURCE: EC LAP 16—Regulate and Protect (Government and Business)

22. B

Sales. Governments levy taxes to raise money to pay for various programs and initiatives. Sales tax is 

typically charged on nonessential goods such as books, flowers, and shoes. Businesses (e.g., retailers) 

that sell the goods collect the sales tax from their customers and give the money to the government at set 

intervals. Governments levy income taxes, which are based on earnings (e.g., wages). Inherited items 

are subject to estate taxes. Governments levy property taxes on land and property.

SOURCE: EC:072

SOURCE: AmosWEB. (2000-2013). Taxes. Retrieved October 14, 2013, from 

23. A

Job enlargement. Job enlargement involves combining different tasks into one position. Employees may 

perform different types of tasks during the course of one day. Because Isabelle is not performing one 

very specialized task day in and day out, she is less likely to become bored with her job. Job rotation 

involves moving from one job to another job within an organization. Job rotation helps employees learn 

new tasks and understand how a variety of tasks relate to others in the organization. Task specialization 

involves becoming highly skilled in one, very small portion of a job. Specialization by trade is the type of 

work that a person performs in order to earn a living, such as engineering, public relations, or accounting.

SOURCE: EC:014

SOURCE: EC LAP 7—Divide and Conquer (Specialization and the Division of Labor)

www.nedarc.org/tutorials/analyzingData/cleanTheData/purposeDataCleaning.html

http://www.amosweb.com/cgi-bin/awb_nav.pl?s=wpd&c=dsp&k=taxes

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 16

24. C

Personal consumption expenditures. Personal consumption expenditures include the final market value 

of all services and new and used goods purchased for consumption by individuals and nonprofit 

institutions. Everything that individuals and families buy for personal use is counted in this GDP category. 

The items sold by the local fish market are part of this category because they are purchased by 

consumers for their personal consumption. Net exports of goods and services, gross private domestic 

investment, and government purchases of goods and services are other categories of gross domestic 

product, but they do not include items sold by a local fish market.

SOURCE: EC:017

SOURCE: EC LAP 1—Measure Up? (Gross Domestic Product)

25. A

Increases, increase. Interest is the reward or cost of lending or borrowing money, and this amount is 

usually figured as a percentage of the amount of money borrowed. The interest rate is the percentage 

figure used to calculate interest. Many factors affect interest rates, including government policies and the 

business cycle. The nation's rate of inflation, which is how quickly prices are rising in the marketplace, 

can affect interest rates. When the inflation rate increases rapidly, the interest rates also increase. This 

occurs because there is less money available for financial institutions to loan to individuals and 

businesses. When the inflation rate levels off, prices tend to stabilize, and in some situations, prices may 

decrease.

SOURCE: EC:084

SOURCE: Financial Web. (n.d.). Factors influencing interest rates. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

26. C

Identify one strength for every weakness. It's important to identify weaknesses, but it's destructive to 

obsess over them. There's no need to review them each day or to find a new one each day. And, there's 

certainly no need to minimize your strengths. Try to identify one strength for every weakness to keep 

things in perspective.

SOURCE: EI:002

SOURCE: EI LAP 17—Assess for Success (Assessing Personal Strengths and Weaknesses)

27. D

Interest and enthusiasm. The salesperson has shown an immediate interest in the customer's request 

and given an enthusiastic response. The salesperson does not have a negative attitude, which would be 

characterized by boredom and indifference. The extent of his/her product knowledge cannot be judged by 

the response to a single question.

SOURCE: EI:020

SOURCE: Wallace, H.R., & Masters, L.A. (2006). Personal development for life & work (9th ed.) [p. 

28. C

Initiative. A person with initiative is willing to accept/seek additional duties and responsibilities without 

having to be urged. The term empathy refers to a person's sensitivity to and understanding of others. 

Tact refers to a person's ability to express his/her ideas and beliefs without offending others. Selfishness 

means being overly concerned about one's own needs and interests.

SOURCE: EI:024

SOURCE: EI LAP 2—Hustle! (Taking Initiative at Work)

29. C

Increased cooperation. Cooperation among workers creates a pleasant work atmosphere, and it is one of 

the benefits of empathy in the workplace. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place, 

and it fosters harmonious relations and reduces friction. It does not necessarily create an impressive 

image.

SOURCE: EI:030

SOURCE: EI LAP 12—Have a Heart (Showing Empathy for Others)

http://www.finweb.com/banking-credit/factors-influencing-interest-rates.html

187]. Mason, OH: South-Western Cengage Learning.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 17

30. C

Western cultures embrace the idea that working hard will reap personal rewards and fulfillment. Culture 

refers to the customs, habits, and traditions of a particular group of people. Because culture and cultural 

differences affect business relationships, it is important for businesspeople to understand and adapt to 

cultural differences in business situations (i.e., exhibit cultural sensitivity). Individualism is the degree to 

which a group of people value independent work and accomplishments. Western culture (e.g., Canada, 

United States, England) places a high value on individual accomplishments achieved through hard work. 

On the other hand, collectivism is an emphasis on group work and accomplishments. Eastern cultures 

(e.g., China, Japan) tend to value group decision making and accomplishments over individual efforts. 

Time and gender roles are important considerations when exhibiting cultural sensitivity, but these factors 

are not related to the concept of individualism.

SOURCE: EI:033

SOURCE: EI LAP 11—Getting to Know You (Cultural Sensitivity)

31. A

At work. Refusing requests can be a particularly tough task at work. There are times when you can't 

reasonably say “no,” such as when your manager assigns you a new project or when a client has an 

unbreakable deadline. However, there are times when saying “no” is necessary and even makes you a 

better employee. Refusing requests isn't necessarily tougher when you are sick or during the summer. 

Aggressive people usually have no trouble saying “no.”

SOURCE: EI:008

SOURCE: EI LAP 18—Assert Yourself (Assertiveness)

32. B

Is often more specific than organizational vision. Organizational vision and team vision differ in that team 

vision is often more specific, not more general, than organizational vision because it addresses specific 

work tasks. Team vision complements the organizational vision that has already been predetermined by 

the company's leaders. Though the two visions may differ slightly, they will both be headed in the same 

direction.

SOURCE: EI:060

SOURCE: EI LAP 13—Vision Quest (Enlisting Others in Vision)

33. D

Installment. Installment credit is commonly used to purchase large, expensive items such as cars. The 

title for an item purchased on installment credit is made out in the name of the credit user; however, the 

seller retains a claim on the title until all of the payments have been made. Regular credit accounts are 

used to obtain small-ticket items during a set period of time, usually 30 days. Budget credit accounts 

advertise credit terms such as "90 Days Same as Cash." Revolving credit accounts involve setting a 

credit limit and paying the amount due each month or making minimum, monthly payments on the 

account.

SOURCE: FI:002

SOURCE: FI LAP 2—Give Credit Where Credit is Due (Credit and Its Importance)

34. C

Co-signer. When a borrower agrees to a loan, s/he is making a contractual agreement to pay back the 

loan in a certain manner within a specific period of time. When the borrower does not have the collateral 

or credit history to obtain the loan, the lender often requests that another person co-sign for the loan. A 

co-signer is responsible for paying back the loan if the borrower does not. The credit union, Treasury 

Department, and debt collectors are not responsible for repaying a loan unless they agree to be co-
signers on loan contracts.

SOURCE: FI:063

SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal 

finance (pp. 182-183). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 18

35. C

Obtain short-term capital. Businesses can make either short-term or long-term investments. Short-term 

investments are those that a business holds for less than one year. Some businesses make short-term 

investments to generate capital in a short amount of time. They might need short-term capital to finance 

special projects or to expand the business. For example, a business invests $100,000 in a stock that is 

appreciating in value by 15% annually. The business can sell the stock prior to the one-year point and 

probably obtain the 15% increase which amounts to $15,000. Long-term wealth is capital that 

accumulates over a period of several years. Businesses do not hold investments for less than one year to 

reduce tax obligations or control inflation rates.

SOURCE: FI:270

SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013). Short-term investments. Retrieved October 24, 2013, from 

36. C

Compounding. Compounding takes place whenever you earn interest on interest. It has the potential to 

increase the value of an investment exponentially over time. Zach's original investment of $300 grew by 

$30 over the first year. In the second year, Zach experienced a 10 percent gain on his original $300 plus 

on the additional $30 that he had earned during the first year. In the third year, Zach experienced another 

10 percent on his original $300 plus on the additional $63 that he had earned during the first two years. 

Opportunity cost refers to the trade-off that occurs when you choose one alternative over another. 

Banking services is a career area in which employees are primarily concerned with accepting deposits, 

lending funds, and extending credit to bank customers. Globalization refers to the rapid and unimpeded 

flow of capital, labor, and ideas across national borders.

SOURCE: FI:270

SOURCE: QS LAP 30—Supersize Your Money

37. B

Purchase. When individuals make investments, they receive purchase documents that include 

information about the cost of the investment and any commissions or fees that were paid. Individuals 

should keep these documents in their records to verify ownership and to be able to determine if it was a 

good investment over a period of time. For example, the purchase record would indicate the cost 

(perhaps it was $25 a share), the total amount purchased (100 shares for a total of $2,500), and a fee of 

$30. By comparing the purchase records to actual value in five years, an individual will be able to decide 

if the investment was worthwhile. Perhaps the cost per share is $40 a share in five years. An individual 

might consider this to be a good return on the investment. Deposit and credit records usually do not 

contain information about investments. Logistics refer to managing the flow of goods and services from 

production to consumption. 

SOURCE: FI:069

SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal 

38. D

Mortgage company. A primary function of a non-deposit financial institution is to lend money to qualified 

customers. For example, mortgage companies arrange loans for individuals to purchase homes and for 

businesses to purchase office buildings, production facilities, or warehouses. Deposit-taking financial 

institutions accept funds from customers (depositors) and pay interest on the accepted funds. Credit 

unions, commercial banks, savings and loan associations (banks), and mutual savings banks are types 

of deposit-taking financial institutions.

SOURCE: FI:336

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 18-19). South-Western Cengage 

http://www.investopedia.com/terms/s/shorterminvestments.asp

finance (pp. 261-262). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Learning.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 19

39. B

Making payments on behalf of savers to creditors. Deposit-taking institutions commonly accept deposits 

(funds) from savers and use those deposits to make payments on behalf of savers to individuals, firms, 

and creditors to whom the savers owe money. Deposit-taking institutions, which include commercial 

banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, trust companies, and mortgage companies, also use

those deposits to offer loans to borrowers. Investment banks, which are investment institutions, raise 

funds for clients by issuing securities. Government and semigovernment financial institutions carry out 

regulatory and supervisory functions. They also increase the funds available to investors, manage risk, 

and assume risk. Insurance companies, which are categorized as finance and insurance institutions, use 

funds from premiums to offer loans. They also manage and pool individuals' risk, invest funds to raise 

more capital, and create investment products.

SOURCE: FI:336

SOURCE: MBA Research and Curriculum Center. (2009). Introduction to finance course guide (pp. 5-

40. A

On the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). Very small companies that don't meet organized 

exchange listing requirements as well as companies with poor credit ratings are likely to trade their stock 

on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). The OTCBB is a regulated electronic exchange with no 

listing requirements. Therefore, stocks traded on the OTCBB are likely to be riskier investments than 

stocks traded on organized exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange or the Toronto Stock 

Exchange. The American Stock Exchange is an organized exchange which became the NYSE Amex 

Equities in 2009.

SOURCE: FI:337

SOURCE: Investopedia. (2013). Over-the-counter (OTC). Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

41. D

To lower costs. Consolidation is the merging of financial providers within the same institutional category. 

For example, consolidation occurs when two banks merge to form one bank. By consolidating, the 

financial firms can achieve economies of scale, which result in reduced redundancy and lower costs. 

Consolidation can increase the assets (liquid capital) for all of the financial firms involved. Consolidation 

can also provide consumers with a wider range of financial products. Consolidation may or may not lower 

business risk.

SOURCE: FI:573

SOURCE: MBA Research and Curriculum Center. (2009). Introduction to finance course guide

42. D

Fully integrated financial services provider. There are several different types of financial firms that offer 

integrated financial services. A fully integrated financial services provider offers multiple types of financial 

products (e.g., loans, insurance, trust services, etc.) using one pool of capital. A universal bank is a 

corporate entity that offers banking products directly to customers but also sells other financial products, 

especially insurance, through subsidiaries. Each subsidiary has its own pool of capital. A financial holding 

company, also known as a parent company, owns most or all of the shares of individually incorporated 

subsidiaries that engage in different types of financial activities. Like subsidiaries of a universal bank, 

each subsidiary of a financial holding company has its own pool of capital. Universal bank and trust 

corporations and consolidated cross-product parent companies are fictitious terms.

SOURCE: FI:573

SOURCE: MBA Research and Curriculum Center. (2009). Introduction to finance course guide 

19-5-20). Columbus, OH: Author.

http://www.investopedia.com/terms/o/otc.asp

(pp. 5-106, 5-107). Columbus, Ohio: Author.

(pp. 5-106 - 5-107). Columbus, OH: Author.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 20

43. A

An individual buys 10 shares of stock for $150 per share on one market, and immediately sells each 

share for $200 on another market. Arbitrage is profiting from the sale of a financial instrument (e.g., 

stock) or good on a different market. Arbitrage often involves the buying and selling of goods and other 

types of services. For example, a person who buys a set of football tickets from a sport organization for 

$100 and sells them on E-bay to another person for $500 is engaging in arbitrage. When an individual 

earns interest on his/her money by agreeing to leave it in a financial institution for a certain timeframe, 

s/he is investing in a certificate of deposit. Businesses that set aside money for their employees' 

retirement are contributing to a pension plan. A business that sells bonds is using debt financing to raise 

funds for its expansion efforts.

SOURCE: FI:574

SOURCE: Moffatt, M. (n.d.). What is arbitrage? Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

44. D

Fall. The Consumer Price Index measures the prices of consumer goods. In the U.S., it is published 

monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, most experts conduct a “year-on-year” comparison 

to better understand increases and/or decreases in the CPI. An increase in the CPI signals an increase in 

inflation. A sharp increase in inflation causes interest rates and bond values to rise and stock prices to 

fall.

SOURCE: FI:574

SOURCE: Clayton, G.E. (2005). Economics: Principles & practices (pp. 350-353). New York: 

45. C

Business cycle risks. By investing their funds in many different countries, investors are able to diversify 

their risk and reduce their exposure to business cycle risks. However, financial globalization seems to 

increase the risks of “speculative bubbles” and “herd behavior” of investors. Liberalization is the removal 

of government regulations on the flow of capital and international trade. Many countries around the world 

have reduced or eliminated limits on foreigners' access to their financial markets. Capital appreciation 

occurs when stock that a person owns becomes worth more than what the person paid for it. Capital 

appreciation is a positive aspect of investing, not something to avoid.

SOURCE: FI:575

SOURCE: MBA Research and Curriculum Center. (2009). Introduction to finance course guide 

46. B

How are your fees structured? Because financial planners are compensated in different ways, it is 

important to consider the fee structure when selecting a financial-services provider. Some financial 

planners charge a flat fee, while others base their fees on the number and size of transactions. Some 

financial planners charge for research and consulting time. Therefore, it is important to ask financial 

planners about their fee structures, so investors can determine if they can afford the fees. A financial 

planner may provide references for a potential client, but the potential client does not generally need to 

provide the financial planner with references. It is inappropriate to ask the financial planner about his/her 

personal income. Where the financial planner attended school is irrelevant.

SOURCE: FI:076

SOURCE: Kapoor, J.R., Dlabay, L.R., Hughes, R.J., & Hoyt, W.B. (2005). Business and personal 

47. C

A company's annual report. A company's annual report is an example of an internal source, because it 

comes from the company itself. The ValueLine Investment Survey, brokerage firm research, and financial 

web portals are all examples of external stock information resources.

SOURCE: FI:274

SOURCE: QS LAP 36—The Source Is With You (Finding and Evaluating Securities Information)

http://economics.about.com/cs/finance/a/arbitrage_3.htm

Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

(pp. 5-156 - 5-158). Columbus, OH: Author.

finance (pp. 260-261). New York: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 21

48. A

Volatile. Prices that rise and fall sharply are said to be volatile. Stable, healthy, or solid are not words that 

would be used to describe a volatile stock.

SOURCE: FI:275

SOURCE: QS LAP 37—Table Talk

49. A

Economic. Technological developments are a type of economic risk that cannot be controlled. Human 

risk is caused by human weaknesses and/or unpredictability. Natural risks result from natural causes 

such as fire, weather conditions, and perishability.

SOURCE: FI:084

SOURCE: Clark, B., Sobel, J., & Basteri, C.G. (2010). Marketing dynamics: Teacher's edition (2nd ed.) 

50. B

Determining resources available to fund a new project. Managers use financial information on many 

occasions, including when planning strategies, executing strategies, and evaluating the execution of 

strategies. For example, a manager would use financial information to determine what financial resources 

are available to fund a new project that s/he is planning. To research the demographics of a new target 

market, information gathered through market research would be more useful. Financial information is not 

used to calculate the number of on-the-job injuries or to establish lines of authority within an organization.

SOURCE: FI:579

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 342-343). South-Western 

51. A

Professional integrity. Demonstrating integrity involves adhering to an established set of personal ethics 

and sound moral principles. Ethics are the basic principles that govern an individual's behavior. The role 

of ethics in accounting is to serve as a guide for professional conduct. This is important because 

accounting involves keeping and interpreting financial records, which managers and stakeholders use to 

make decisions about the business. Therefore, accounting professionals must demonstrate professional 

integrity to ensure that the information they collect and present is accurate and objective. Although 

innovation, collaboration, empathy, and flexibility are admirable traits, preparing accurate and objective 

financial information does not require accounting professionals to demonstrate these characteristics.

SOURCE: FI:351

SOURCE: eNotes. (2013). Ethics in accounting. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

52. B

Customer service sending brochures about the company's loans to people who've just taken out loans 

with the company. Financial-information management systems tie financial transaction data with non-
financial transaction data so that money is not wasted on promoting financial products to those who've 

just obtained the financial product. They encompass both processes and technologies to manage data 

about finances, internal operational information, and external market and competitive indicators. Use of a 

financial-information management system will not keep a company's computer from crashing, nor will it 

keep different versions of a database application from being incompatible. Mergers and acquisitions 

present a challenge to the finance industry in terms of financial-information management; however, its 

use will not eliminate mergers and acquisitions from happening.

SOURCE: FM:002

SOURCE: Acevedo, L. (n.d.). What are the benefits of a financial information management system?

[pp. 399-400]. Tinley Park, IL: Goodheart-Willcox Company, Inc.

Cengage Learning.

http://www.enotes.com/topics/ethics-accounting

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.ehow.com/facts_5031791_benefits-financial-
management-information-system.html 

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 22

53. C

A financial-information management system can be used to support operations management decisions. 

Operations managers might use a financial-information management system to determine operating 

efficiency, manage inventory, or evaluate key suppliers. Although technology is an integral part of 

financial-information management function, it is not the only part. The financial-information management 

function involves people, processes, and equipment/technology. Due to increased compliance 

requirements, the financial-information management function's responsibilities have increased in recent 

years. Much more data must be maintained by the financial-information management system for longer 

periods of time as a result of new laws and regulations. Data in a financial-information management 

system should be current. In many situations, decision makers need to know what is happening right 

now, not what happened months or even years ago.

SOURCE: FM:002

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (p. 341). South-Western Cengage 

54. B

Implement security policies. Businesses have an ethical responsibility to maintain the privacy of their 

customers' financial information. Businesses must take precautions to ensure that customers' credit, 

loan, and other types of financial data are kept confidential. To maintain confidentiality, businesses must 

develop and implement security policies. The policies may restrict the employees' access to customers' 

financial information. The policies may also involve the use of computer safety measures, such as 

firewalls and encryption techniques. Collection procedures are the activities that the business uses to 

collect funds owed by others. Developing collection procedures, monitoring competitors' activities, and 

reviewing inventory systems are not actions that will help businesses protect the privacy of their 

customers' financial information.

SOURCE: FM:003

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 355-359). Mason, OH: South-
Western Cengage Learning.

55. C

Central data repository. A central data repository is a comprehensive database containing financial data 

from throughout the organization. By compiling all of these data in one large, powerful database, the data 

are more consistent and up-to-date, managers can get faster responses to their queries, and the 

organization enjoys economies of scale in the realm of financial-information management. Disparate data 

systems contain multiple databases scattered throughout the enterprise that do not necessarily work 

together or contain consistent information. An intrusion detection system is a technological safeguard 

used to ensure the security of financial information. A financial holding company is a company that owns 

most or all of the shares of individually incorporated subsidiaries that engage in different types of financial 

activities.

SOURCE: FM:011

SOURCE: InterSystems. (1996-2013). Caché and data management in the financial services industry. 

Learning.

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

http://www.intersystems.com/cache/whitepapers/datamanagement_wp.html

56. B

To identify hidden patterns. Data mining is the process of searching computer databases to look for 

patterns and relationships among information, some of which are not obvious. For example, data mining 

might reveal that a credit-card company's customers often use their credit cards to buy gasoline on 

Thursday afternoons between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. The business could use this information to 

develop special programs or promotions to appeal to these customers. The data-mining process might 

involve sifting through a vendor's data, or it might reveal problems; however, the primary purpose of data 

mining is not to calculate statistical ratios, collect data from vendors, or resolve unidentified problems. 

SOURCE: FM:012

SOURCE: Aaker, D.A., Kumar, V., & Day, G.S. (2007). Marketing research (9th ed.) [p. 711]. Hoboken, 

NJ: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 23

57. B

Budgeting tools. A budget is an estimate of income and expense for a specific timeframe. A budget is an 

important financial tool that helps the business manage its money. Many websites provide budgeting 

tools such as software downloads or free printable worksheets. Legal data, statistical information, and 

organizational charts are not tools that help small-business owners plan and manage their income and 

expenses.

SOURCE: FM:013

SOURCE: About.com. (2013). Budget worksheet. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

58. D

Debt management. The primary function of budgeting software is to help a business forecast and monitor 

income and expenses for all of its functions including sales, promotion, production, payroll, etc. Advanced 

software can generate different types of reports by integrating financial data from a variety of sources 

(e.g., cash flows, “what if” scenarios) to help the business make decisions about how to best manage its 

debt (expenses). Businesses often use production-management or project-management software for 

scheduling and sequencing and for allocating materials for production or a project.

SOURCE: FM:013

SOURCE: Centage Corporation. (2013). Compare Budget Maestro budgeting software products. 

http://financialplan.about.com/cs/budgeting/l/blbudget.htm

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://centage.com/Products/Editions/Budget-Maestro-
Compare.asp

59. C

Financial outcomes. Computer spreadsheet software has the ability to calculate formulas and organize 

numerical data. When a business inputs different values or sets of numerical data in a spreadsheet, the 

spreadsheet software calculates the values or sets of data, which provides different outcomes based on 

the values or sets of data that were used. By reviewing the various outcomes, the business can 

determine the best course of action to take under particular circumstances; the “what ifs” of specific 

situations. Production strategies are the activities used to produce goods and services. Distribution 

methods are the strategies that a business uses to make sure that products are delivered to the right 

people at the right place at the right time. Accounting standards are the degrees to which accounting 

practices (financial recordkeeping) meet certain criteria.

SOURCE: FM:014

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 342-343). Mason, OH: South-
Western Cengage Learning.

60. A

They use a lot of space. Suffix trees are data structures used to speed up exact matches of a query 

sequence in a database. Their use does consume a lot of space. Other drawbacks of suffix trees are that 

they are unbalanced, that they represent specialized data structures, and that they support contiguous 

substring queries.

SOURCE: FM:015

SOURCE: Wikipedia. (2013). Suffix tree. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

61. A

Civil and/or criminal penalties. If a business misleads lenders and investors with inaccurate financial data, 

the company's executives, financial managers, and other personnel may face civil and/or criminal 

penalties for their wrongdoing. Although inaccurate financial data may tempt some individuals to invest in 

the company, civil and/or criminal penalties are a more likely consequence. Inaccurate financial data are 

not likely to cause a two-for-one stock split. The actions of just one company are not likely to cause the 

economy to contract.

SOURCE: FM:004

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 115,126). Mason, OH: South-
Western Cengage Learning.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Suffix_tree

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 24

62. D

Measure the firm's competitiveness and performance. Because many investors and financial analysts 

look at a business's financial statements to measure the firm's competitiveness and performance, the 

business should make every effort to report its financial position accurately. If it does not, investors and 

financial analysts may shy away from purchasing the company's stock. If the company's financial 

statements underestimate its performance, investors and financial analysts may avoid the company 

because it looks unprofitable. And, if the financial statements are overly positive, investors and financial 

analysts may come to distrust the company because it overstates its success. A company's financial 

statements are not likely to help investors and financial analysts to identify new products that the firm 

plans to introduce next year, determine the size and makeup of the firm's workforce, or assess the 

effectiveness of the firm's risk-management system.

SOURCE: FM:004

SOURCE: Codjia, M. (n.d.). Proper way to present a financial statement. Retrieved October 25, 2013, 

63. C

Securing business credit. Finance is the function of business that involves all money and money 

management matters. The purpose of the finance function is to boost a company's growth and reduce its 

risks. One way the finance function boosts a company's growth is by securing appropriate business 

credit. Finance managers use accounting information to make financial decisions about the company. 

Accounting is a finance activity that involves keeping and interpreting financial records. Preparing payroll, 

processing accounts receivable, and developing depreciation schedules are activities performed by the 

accounting function.

SOURCE: FM:005

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 102-103). South-Western 

64. D

Accrual. The accrual accounting system records transactions at the time they occur even if no money 

changes hands at the time, such as a purchase made with credit. Most businesses use this method 

because it more accurately reflects the business's overall financial position. The cash accounting method 

records income and expenditures at the time the money changes hands; this can result in income and 

expenses not appearing in the same time period. Managerial accounting provides financial information 

internally to managers, which helps them make appropriate business decisions. Perpetual is a type of 

inventory system that updates inventory information on a continuous basis as transactions occur.

SOURCE: FM:006

SOURCE: Business Owners Toolkit. (2012, May 24). The accounting system and accounting basics. 

from http://www.ehow.com/about_7467971_proper-way-present-financial-statement.html

Cengage Learning.

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.bizfilings.com/toolkit/sbg/finance/basic-
accounting/accounting-system-accounting-basics.aspx

65. B

Job order. Businesses that can track their costs to a specific job or order often use a job order cost 

accounting system. Attorneys can usually identify which client should be charged for certain expenses, 

while auto mechanics charge each client individually for the parts and labor needed to repair his/her 

automobile. Process cost accounting works well for businesses that produce standard products 

continuously. Consumer and cyclic cost accounting systems are fictitious terms.

SOURCE: FM:006

SOURCE: Price, J.E., Haddock, M.D., & Brock, H.R. (2007). College accounting: Chapters 1-32 

66. D

Data in financial reports from multiple time periods. Trends indicate the direction that something is 

headed. They depict patterns. Horizontal analysis requires the comparison of data over a period of time. 

You cannot look at a single financial report and spot trends for a horizontal analysis.

SOURCE: FM:008

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 83-84). South-Western Cengage 

instructor edition (11th ed.) [p. 1010]. New York: McGraw-Hill Irwin.

Learning.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 25

67. A

Develop a financial strategy to help the customer. Whether the finance professional works internally or 

externally, or works with individuals or businesses, s/he should be able to analyze the customer's 

financial information to recommend an appropriate financial strategy for the "customer." Business 

management would declare a company in bankruptcy based on information provided by the finance 

professional. Just having a customer's financial information requires finance professionals to protect its 

privacy—analysis is not required. The customer's marketing department would determine its newest 

target market, while the finance professional will measure the target market's profitability.

SOURCE: FM:009

SOURCE: Kolakowski, M. (n.d.). Financial planner. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

68. A

Customer's ability to pay. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase 

now and pay later. Before offering credit to a prospective customer, the business needs to analyze the 

customer's financial status to determine if the customer has the money available to make payments on 

time and in the full amount of the agreement. Businesses review the customer's income, assets, debt 

ratio, credit history, etc. If the customer's financial status meets the business's credit standards, then a 

credit arrangement is a viable option. If the customer carries high debt in relation to assets, it would be 

too risky for the business to offer credit because the customer is more likely to become delinquent. The 

business does not analyze risks related to its own accounting processes or reporting strategies. A 

beneficiary is a person who receives benefits, most often money, from another person. For example, a 

beneficiary of a life-insurance policy receives money upon the insured's death. 

SOURCE: FM:009

SOURCE: Longenecker, J.G., Moore, C.W., Petty, J.W., & Palich, L.E. (2006). Small business 

http://financecareers.about.com/od/financialplanner/a/finplanner.htm 

management: An entrepreneurial emphasis (13th ed.) [pp. 343-344]. Mason, OH: Thomson 

South-Western.

69. A

To understand accounting treatment. By reviewing a business's financial data, a finance professional can 

learn whether the business is using accrual or cash accounting methods. With the accrual method, 

transactions are recorded at the time they occur, rather than when payment is received or made. With 

cash accounting, transactions are recorded when payment is received or made. The accrual method is 

used by most businesses since it allows the current cash flows to be combined with future expected cash 

flows, thereby giving a more accurate picture of a company's current financial condition. Cash accounting 

presents a more conservative view of a company's financial situation; therefore, it's important to analyze 

financial data to determine the accounting treatment that has been used. Marketing and management 

determine what products need to be recalled. Recalls are generally due to safety issues. Financial data 

are quantitative data rather than qualitative data. Financial models are used in analyzing financial data 

rather than being an outcome of the analysis.

SOURCE: FM:010

SOURCE: Wicked How-To's. (2007-2013). Accrual basis vs cash basis accounting: The differences. 

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://wickedhowtos.com/index.php/2008/05/21/accrual-
basis-vs-cash-basis-accounting-the-differences/

70. C

Cash-flow statement. The cash-flow statement is a financial summary that contains estimates as to 

when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. Analyzing the cash-flow 

statement will help a business determine if it will have enough money coming in to pay its short-term 

expenses. The business plan is the business's written business model—it describes how the business 

will achieve its objectives. The capital-investment plan describes the business's assets and how the 

business plans to use them over time. A mutual-funds statement is a status report sent to investors to let 

them know how their mutual funds are performing. 

SOURCE: FM:010

SOURCE: Bovée, C.L., Thill, J.V., & Mescon, M.H. (2007). Excellence in business (3rd ed.) 

[pp. 534-535]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Prentice Hall.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 26

71. D

Strategic management. When HR management executives participate in a company's long-range 

planning efforts, they are taking part in strategic management. Strategic management may take into 

account marketing, budgeting, and financial analysis, but HR managers will be present to ensure that the 

company is planning now to have the human resources it needs tomorrow.

SOURCE: HR:410

SOURCE: HR LAP 35—People Pusher (Nature of Human Resources Management)

72. B

Competition. Competition is an environmental (external) factor that can influence a business's buying 

behavior. A business can't control its competition, but it may respond to it through creating new products 

or promotions, which can require changes in buying habits. Business structure is an internal, 

organizational factor that influences buying behavior. Subculture and family are two factors that influence 

individual consumers' buying behavior. 

SOURCE: MK:014

SOURCE: MK LAP 6—Cause and Effect (Buying Behavior)

73. C

Comparing the information with other articles about the topic. When other articles from reputable sources 

confirm the information from the original article, the information in the original article is more likely to be 

reliable. Evaluating the author's writing style, gathering internal reports from the company's database, 

and asking others for their opinions are not actions that will verify the reliability of the article's information.

SOURCE: NF:079

SOURCE: Rogier, M. (n.d.). How to determine the validity of a research article. Retrieved October 25, 

74. A

Satellite technology. Global positioning systems (GPS) rely on the use of satellite technology. Businesses 

use GPS to find directions, track shipments, etc. Voice over Internet Protocol is a type of technology that 

allows users to make voice and video calls online, rather than through traditional public networks. 

Cellphone technology allows users to make calls anywhere, any time. Though users might be able to 

check satellite information online, GPS do not rely on the Internet.

SOURCE: NF:003

SOURCE: NF LAP 4—TECH-tastic (Technology's Impact on Business)

75. D

Browser. A browser is software that allows a computer to access information on the Internet. It has the 

capability of searching for and locating information on the Web and displaying that information, which 

then can be printed or saved. Microsoft's Internet Explorer is an example of a web browser. Mozilla 

Firefox is another browser. A cookie is a bit of information that a website collects about each viewer. A 

bookmark is Internet Explorer's term for marking a website for later reference. A server is a computer that 

provides services to another computer.

SOURCE: NF:006

SOURCE: Wikipedia.com. (2013). Internet explorer. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

76. C

Global competition. Businesses throughout the world are competing for the same customers as a result 

of technological advances. Improved communication and transportation methods have made goods and 

services available to previously untapped markets. Consequently, foreign businesses are selling to 

customers who formerly bought goods only from local companies. The foreign competitor has an impact 

on a local business and may force it to lower prices or offer additional services in order to survive. 

Physical environment, domestic transportation, and social behavior are not business trends.

SOURCE: NF:013

SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (p. 93). Columbus, 

2013, from http://www.ehow.com/how_5035804_determine-validity-research-article.html#

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_Explorer

OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 27

77. A

Import/Export regulations. Import/Export regulations are a factor that relates to government. The 

government can have a great influence on a business's decision making, so it is important to include 

government in any environmental scan. Religious affiliation is a piece of demographic data. Stage of the 

business cycle relates to the economy. Advances in technology will be scanned in a separate category.

SOURCE: NF:015

SOURCE: NF LAP 2—Get the 411 (Environmental Scanning)

78. D

7. Central tendency refers to a type of average. Mode is a measure of central tendency and is the 

number that appears most frequently in a group of numbers. A business might determine the mode so it 

can identify the most common responses for questions appearing on a customer survey. The business 

assigns a numerical value to each response option on the survey. For example, the response, "extremely 

satisfied with service," might have a value of nine. To determine the mode, count the number of times 

each value appears (3 appears 1 time; 5 appears 2 times; 9 appears 3 times; and 7 appears 4 times). 

The highest number of times a number appears is the mode (7). 

SOURCE: NF:093

SOURCE: Farese, L.S., Kimbrell, G., Woloszyk, C.A. (2012). Marketing essentials (pp. 182-183). 

79. A

OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for Occupational 

Health and Safety). OSHA (in the U.S.) and CCOHS (in Canada) are responsible for ensuring workplace 

safety. Both agencies work to prevent work-related illnesses and injuries. Employees can anonymously 

file complaints to OSHA and CCOHS about workplace safety and health hazards. The FDA is 

responsible for protecting U.S. public health by assuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and 

veterinary drugs, biological products, medical devices, our nation's food supply, cosmetics, and products 

that emit radiation. The CFIA oversees the safety of the Canadian food supply. The BLS is the principal 

fact-finding agency for the U.S. government in the broad field of labor economics and statistics. Statistics 

Canada is a federal agency responsible for providing data about Canada's population, resources, 

economy, etc. The HHS protects the health of all Americans and provides essential human services, 

especially for those who are least able to help themselves.

SOURCE: OP:005

SOURCE: United States Department of Labor (n.d.). How to file a complaint with OSHA. Retrieved 

80. B

It's important to get expected deliverables in writing from the client. Before you can plan, you must know 

exactly what your deliverables are. This task occurs right after you determine the project's purpose and 

scope, not halfway through the planning process. A project may have several deliverables. Creating a 

schedule does not come until later in the project-planning process. It is true, however, that project 

managers should get expected deliverables from the client in writing.

SOURCE: OP:001

SOURCE: OP LAP 7—Chart Your Course (Developing a Project Plan)

81. C

Business use. Doormats, carpeting, telephones, and cleaning chemicals are all items that an office might 

buy for its own use, rather than for resale or transformation. These items would not be purchased for 

production, negotiations, or competitive bidding.

SOURCE: OP:015

SOURCE: OP LAP 2—Buy Right (Purchasing)

Columbus, OH: Glencoe/McGraw-Hill.

October 25, 2013, from http://osha.gov/as/opa/worker/complain.html

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 28

82. C

Identifying needs. The first step in the bidding process is identifying needs. For example, if a business 

wants to upgrade its computer system, it must determine the software it needs for employees to perform 

various business functions. After identifying needs, the business can develop a request for proposal 

(RFP) to send to potential vendors or contractors. The RFP summarizes the details about the business's 

needs, bid requirements, and deadlines. After the business obtains the bids, it can assess each bidder's 

strengths and weaknesses. Then, the business selects and negotiates terms with the vendor.

SOURCE: OP:160

SOURCE: Mind Tools. (1996-2013). Request for proposal documents: Getting better terms with a 

competitive bidding process. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

http://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newPPM_79.htm

83. B

Increase net profit. Net profit is the money remaining after operating expenses are subtracted from gross 

profit. Operating expenses consist of fixed costs and variable costs. Fixed costs are expenses that do not 

change with sales volume, while variable costs fluctuate with changes in sales volume. Therefore, if sales 

increase without much increase in variable costs, and fixed costs remain the same, a larger net profit 

should result. The cost of goods sold is independent of the relationship between fixed/variable costs and 

sales. Break-even point is the level of sales at which revenues equal total costs.

SOURCE: OP:024

SOURCE: Dlabay, L.R., & Burrow, J.L. (2008). Business finance (pp. 82, 128-129, 151-152). South-
Western Cengage Learning.

84. C

Housekeeping. Housekeeping chores include arranging materials, cleaning shelves and counter areas, 

and removing unnecessary items. Regular housekeeping activities are necessary in order to keep the 

premises in a clean, organized condition. Counters littered with out-of-date promotional materials and 

empty sign holders indicate a lack of general housekeeping, which reflects poorly on the business and 

may offend potential customers. Maintenance activities include repairing equipment and fixtures and 

periodically remodeling the facilities. Security activities are involved with the safety of customers and 

employees.

SOURCE: OP:032

SOURCE: Stutts, A. T., & Wortman, J. F. (2006). Hotel and lodging management: An introduction

85. D

A process. Creativity is often identified as the process of allowing new perspectives and of coming up 

with innovative ways of doing things. This process usually incorporates many elements and goes through 

many phases. Often, creativity involves taking elements from two or more different settings and applying 

them to a particular situation.

SOURCE: PD:012

SOURCE: Mindtools. (1996-2013). DO IT: A simple process for creativity. Retrieved October 25, 2013, 

86. B

Long term; decided by yourself. Goals are statements that you make, telling yourself what you want to 

achieve. Goals come in many shapes and sizes. Some you decide for yourself, and some your boss or 

supervisor decides for you. Some are long term, and some are short term. Greg's goal of working on the 

New York Stock Exchange by the time he's 40 is a long-term goal, decided by himself, because it won't 

be achieved until well into the future. 

SOURCE: PD:019

SOURCE: PD LAP 1—About Time (Time Management)

(2nd ed.) [pp. 88, 99-101]. Hoboken, NJ: John Wiley & Sons.

from http://www.mindtools.com/pages/article/newCT_09.htm

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 29

87. A

Maria's father is a microbiologist. Aptitudes are innate and may be inherited. Interests are influenced by 

outside forces, such as friends, classes, or tools such as the microscope. A person's ethics influence 

his/her beliefs, interests, and choices.

SOURCE: PD:023

SOURCE: Johnson O'Connor Research Foundation. (n.d.). Interests vs. aptitudes. Retrieved on 

88. B

Irregular paychecks. Entrepreneurs experience many types of challenges as they start and grow their 

businesses. A financial concern often involves irregular paychecks or unpredictable income. It often takes 

a while for a new venture to gain business and earn a profit, so the entrepreneur often doesn't receive 

income or get paid at regular intervals. Long working hours and shorter vacations are factors related to 

the entrepreneur's personal commitment to his/her business. Production standards are specifications 

related to the process of making or producing goods and services.

SOURCE: PD:066

SOURCE: PD LAP 4—Own Your Own (Career Opportunities in Entrepreneurship)

89. A

They are created and owned by members. Credit unions differ from commercial banks in that they are 

created and owned by their members. Membership is based on a common link among members, such as 

employment at the same company or residence in the same county. Credit unions usually offer lower 

fees and interests rates than commercial banks.

SOURCE: PD:152

SOURCE: QS LAP 51—Careers in the Money

90. C

Promote their products. One of the main reasons why businesses participate in trade shows is to 

promote their products to new and existing customers. Businesses display their products at trade shows 

and have staff on hand to answer questions. Trade shows offer an opportunity for businesses to present 

their products to many potential customers in one place and at one time. Businesses do not train their 

salespeople at trade shows. Although businesses may meet their competitors at trade shows, that is not 

the primary reason for participating. Businesses research their market before participating in trade 

shows.

SOURCE: PD:036

SOURCE: Clow, K.E, & Baack, D. (2010). Integrated advertising, promotion, and marketing 

91. A

Maintain their certification. In most states and provinces, financial planners must have a certain level of 

education. In addition to obtaining the necessary education, financial planners must pass a test to obtain 

certification to carry out financial-planning activities on behalf of their clients. Financial planners are 

usually required to take continuing-education classes every year to maintain their certification. While 

taking continuing-education classes may enhance the financial planners' reputations, this is not the 

primary reason for taking the classes. Financial planners don't take continuing-education classes every 

year so they can train their employees or so they can start new businesses.

SOURCE: PD:082

SOURCE: Certified Financial Planner. (n.d.). CE requirements. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

October 25, 2013, from http://www.jocrf.org/about_aptitudes/interests.html

communications (4th ed.) [pp. 345-346]. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Prentice Hall.

http://www.cfp.net/for-employers-of-cfp-professionals/ce-requirements

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 30

92. D

Carol Hershberger, Financial Analyst, CCB Corporation. Financial analysts are typically required to 

obtain a college degree and additional professional certification, such as a Certified Financial Analyst 

certification (CFA). Bank tellers and bookkeepers often obtain special certifications to perform their 

duties; however, many businesses do not require these individuals to have college degrees to obtain 

their jobs. A production specialist works in operations rather than in finance.

SOURCE: PD:082

SOURCE: Walker, N., & Joseph, A. (2013, October 21). How do I become a financial analyst?

Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.wisegeek.com/how-do-i-become-a-financial-
analyst.htm

93. D

A real estate agent and an insurance broker refer clients to each other. Relationships among business 

professionals are most likely to survive and be successful when everyone involved benefits in a 

substantial way. One common way to build mutually beneficial relationships is to refer clients to each 

other. While taking donuts to other finance professionals, sending cards to clients, and socializing with 

each other at professional association meetings can help to build professional relationships, those 

methods are not as likely to be successful in building enduring relationships as sharing clients with each 

other.

SOURCE: PD:153

SOURCE: Dasqupta, S. (2007, October 30). Effortless networking—How to build a sincere professional 

relationship. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://ezinearticles.com/?Effortless-
Networking—-How-To-Build-A-Sincere-Professional-Relationship&id=808843

94. C

Providing incomplete data for audits. Ethical risk management must be implemented by everyone in an 

organization to protect the company's credibility with its stakeholders. By providing incomplete data for 

audits, employees are acting unethically and risking the company's future existence. Revealing 

discounted expenses is an ethical action. Using or not using insurance companies represents external 

risks for a business.

SOURCE: RM:041

SOURCE: AICPA. (2012, December 31, 2012). Professional ethics: Most frequent violations of 

professional standards. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.aicpa.org/interestareas/

professionalethics/resources/ethicsenforcement/downloadabledocuments/govermentnotforpr

ofitreport.pdf

95. A

Conducting backup procedures. Backup procedures involve duplicating computer entries, records, and 

transactions on a regular basis and storing the duplicate files in a different location. By having backup 

files, the business can retrieve information that might be lost due to a computer crash, a power outage, or 

a fire. Encryption is the process of transforming information into a secret code so that only the recipient 

can read it. An authorization process is a way to limit the access to certain information. Using encryption 

techniques, implementing an authorization process, and monitoring data-transmission rates are not ways 

in which a business can protect its computer data from loss due to fire or power outages.

SOURCE: RM:042

SOURCE: Ward, S. (n.d.). Data backup is the best data protection. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

96. C

Return on investment risk. Cloud computing keeps businesses from having to invest in computer 

hardware, such as servers, and software, thereby avoiding return on investment risk. Instead, businesses 

pay a provider only for the services that they use—much like paying an electric bill. The contract with the 

provider can be ended at any time. Customers will probably receive better service since the business is 

not having down time when its computers malfunction. Speculative risk is the chance of loss or gain. 

Pure risk exists when, if something happens, it will result in a loss.

SOURCE: RM:042

SOURCE: Wikipedia.com. (2013). Cloud computing. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

http://sbinfocanada.about.com/cs/management/a/databackup.htm 

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cloud_computing

Test 1095 FINANCE CLUSTER EXAM—KEY 31

97. D

Reduces tax due on the captive's premiums. Even if it is not associated with an insurance company, an 

individual company, industry, or association may create a captive insurance company to specifically 

protect its parent group(s). The captive insurer aids its parent group(s) by reducing premium expenses, 

freeing up capital, and covering risks not commonly addressed by the greater insurance company. In 

addition, forming a captive insurance company can reduce, eliminate, or defer federal taxes due on the 

corporation's insurance premiums. A captive insurer typically decreases the tax due on a company's loss 

reserves. Forming a captive insurance company does not typically increase the corporation's sales tax 

liabilities, nor does it eliminate the corporation's state tax liabilities.

SOURCE: RM:043

SOURCE: Bertucelli, R.E. (2013, March). The benefits of captive insurance companies. Retrieved 

October 25, 2013, from 

http://www.journalofaccountancy.com/Issues/2013/Mar/20126102.htm

98. A

Implement and monitor safety policies. Businesses can take many actions to control their level of risk. 

Developing, implementing, and monitoring specific safety policies is one way to lower risks associated 

with accidents in the workplace. Accidents can be costly to the business, especially if it does not carry 

sufficient comprehensive property insurance to cover these types of situations and the severe injuries 

that may result. Crime insurance policies protect businesses from losses associated with theft. Health 

insurance is a benefit that businesses offer to their employees to help offset medical expenses. A 

business plan is the written business model, which shows how the business works now and how it is 

intended to work in the future.

SOURCE: RM:058

SOURCE: SCORE. (n.d.). Risk management. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from http://www.ct-
clic.com/Newsletters/customer-files/riskmanagement.pdf

99. C

To protect online transactions. Tokenization is the process of substituting a random number in place of 

an account number to process the transaction online. In this way, financial institutions are able to protect 

customer data from fraud. Credit-card creation, provision of incentives, and government-required quotas 

are not aspects of tokenization.

SOURCE: RM:058

SOURCE: Rouse, M. (2011, May). Tokenization. Retrieved October 25, 2013, from 

100. D

Conceptual skills. Conceptual skills help managers to see the “big picture.” Managers must be able to 

look at the organization as a whole and understand how the various parts of the organization are 

interrelated; they must anticipate how a change in one department could impact all the others. Technical 

skills help managers to understand the specialized aspects of jobs. Interpersonal skills help managers to 

communicate, interact, and build relationships with others. Job-knowledge skills are the specialized body 

of information that enables supervisors and managers to do their particular jobs.

SOURCE: SM:001

SOURCE: SM LAP 3—Manage This! (Concept of Management)

http://www.gtnews.com/article/7835.cfm
