1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 1. A jurisdiction's judicial system strives to treat all parties fairly by  
 A. following legal procedure. 
 B. implementing flexible laws. 
 C. interrogating witnesses.  
 D. developing contracts.  
 ANSWER: A - Following legal procedure. Legal procedure refers to the methods that are used to protect an individual's  or business's legal rights. Each jurisdiction's court system requires that certain procedures be followed to  ensure fair treatment to both the plaintiff and the defendant. This involves following legal procedures to  file complaints with the court, to serve documents to the opposition, and to exhibit proper behavior with  witnesses and jurors during court proceedings. The purpose of legal procedures is to provide consistent  and fair treatment to all parties involved in a legal dispute. The judicial system does not develop contracts  or implement laws; it rules on contract validity by interpreting laws.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 2. Most nations' federal agencies must function within certain limits identified in the specific enabling  legislation that gave the agencies their powers. These limits on the federal agencies' activities are an  example of  
 A. statutory control. 
 B. political control. 
 C. judicial review.  
 D. informational control.  
 ANSWER: A - Statutory control. Four methods used to limit and regulate the activities of federal agencies are statutory  control, political control, judicial review, and informational control. In many countries, the legislative  branch has the power to pass statutes (laws) establishing federal agencies. This enabling legislation  often identifies limits to the agencies' powers. In other words, these statutes control the agencies'  activities. The government wields political control over these agencies by providing (or withholding)  funding, by approving (or speaking out against) individuals nominated to lead these agencies, and by  amending the agencies' enabling legislation. The courts can also control federal agencies by reviewing  and deciding the legality of the agencies' actions. Finally, the public can indirectly control federal  agencies through information. Most federal agencies are required to provide the public with information  on different topics. After reviewing the information, private citizens can take action to influence the  activities of these federal agencies.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 3. Financial managers who are legally responsible for their clients' investments must demonstrate fiduciary  responsibility, which involves  
 A. speaking with their clients once a year to review their portfolios.  
 B. selling financial products that generate the highest commissions.  
 C. making risky investments without their clients' knowledge.  
 D. acting in the best interests of their clients.  
 ANSWER: D - Acting in the best interests of their clients. In the financial industry, a fiduciary is a financial professional  who has been given legal authority to make financial transactions on behalf of an individual or business—  the owner of the financial product (e.g., stock). Because the fiduciary has been given legal authority to  act on behalf of a client, s/he must act in the best interest of the client. Fiduciary responsibility involves  making wise financial decisions and obtaining financial products that will help the client achieve his/her  financial goals. A fiduciary does not focus on selling products that generate the highest commissions or  make risky investments without the client's knowledge. A responsible, ethical fiduciary is transparent and  trustworthy and continuously communicates with her/his clients rather than communicating with them  only once a year.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 4. Which of the following is an estate-tax deduction:  
 A. Valuable art and collectibles left to children  
 B. Property passing directly to the surviving spouse  
 C. Charitable contributions that are unqualified  
 D. Money left to friends or distant relatives  
 ANSWER: B - Property passing directly to the surviving spouse. An estate tax is a tax on the fair-market value of assets  that are transferred to another person upon the owner's death. In some situations, beneficiaries can  obtain estate-tax deductions. The marital deduction is a deduction that applies when the deceased  individual's property passes directly to the surviving spouse. Estate-tax deductions apply to some  qualified charitable contributions. Valuable art, collectibles, and money that are left to children, relatives,  and friends are not tax deductible under estate-tax code.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 5. An individual or business can minimize capital losses on investment property by  
 A. obtaining a long-term loan. 
 B. liquidating remaining assets. 
 C. claiming the loss as a tax deduction.  
 D. renegotiating property insurance premiums.  
 ANSWER: C - Claiming the loss as a tax deduction. The difference between the cost of an investment and the selling  price of that same investment is either a capital gain or capital loss. The federal government taxes the  capital gains on investments. If an investment suffers a loss in value in relation to its purchase price, the  government allows the owner to claim the loss as a tax deduction. Liquidating remaining assets,  obtaining a loan, and renegotiating lower insurance premiums may provide the investor with needed cash  or savings, but these actions do not change or minimize the monetary loss on the investment property.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 6. In addition to ensuring that the company is adhering to all rules and regulations affecting business  operations, what else is a chief compliance officer often responsible for doing?  
 A. Determining the company's point of diminishing returns  
 B. Evaluating the company's different channels of distribution  
 C. Investigating possible conflicts of interest within the company  
 D. Preparing and submitting the company's financial statements  
 ANSWER: C - Investigating possible conflicts of interest within the company. The chief compliance officer is responsible  for developing policies and procedures that ensure that her/his company is adhering to all rules and  regulations affecting business operations. In addition, s/he is often in charge of investigating and  managing conflicts of interest within the company. These conflicts of interest might arise between the  business and its customers, among the business's customers, or among business functions. Such  conflicts of interest have the potential to interfere with the business's compliance with organizational,  industry, and government regulations. Members of the business's marketing department are likely to  evaluate the company's different channels of distribution. Operations management determines the  company's point of diminishing returns, possibly with the accounting or finance department's assistance.  The accounting department prepares and submits the company's financial statements to interested  parties such as the SEC.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 7. What is an advantage to businesses of using virtual-auditor technology?  
 A. The ability to monitor competitors' strategies  
 B. The continuous inspection of transactional data  
 C. The capability of streamlining workflow  
 D. The unlimited access to credit information  
 ANSWER: B - The continuous inspection of transactional data. A virtual auditor is a type of compliance technology that  uses multiple reasoning processes to help the business identify errors and compliance violations. The  advantage to using virtual-auditor technology is that it is continuously inspecting and reviewing financial  transactions and processes in real time, so the business can identify and correct problems quickly. A  business does not use virtual-auditor technology to monitor competitors' activities or to allow unlimited  access to confidential credit information. A business might use project-management software to  streamline and track the workflow of a project.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 8. The most significant barriers that many companies face when implementing integrated governance, risk,  and compliance (GRC) technology are the perceived  
 A. high cost and overabundance of adequate technology solutions.  
 B. high cost and lack of evidence of return on investment.  
 C. high cost and overdependence on a single GRC platform.  
 D. centralization of business risk and lack of adequate technology solutions.  
 ANSWER: B - High cost and lack of evidence of return on investment. Although GRC technology can be very beneficial  for business, many companies encounter difficulties when implementing the technology. The most  significant barriers are the perceived high cost of the technology and a lack of evidence that the  technology will provide a sufficient return on investment. Other barriers include a lack of adequate  technology solutions, the absence of a common risk management/compliance “language,” and poor  change management during the implementation process. Benefits of GRC technology include the use of  a single GRC platform, increased communication among risk management teams, and centralized risk  and compliance oversight. Centralized business risk is neither a barrier nor a benefit of GRC technology.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 9. While conducting a staff meeting, the speaker noticed that Colin was texting on his cellphone. Colin's  nonverbal behavior indicates that he was  
 A. annoyed. 
 B. distracted. 
 C. listening to the speaker.  
 D. interested in the topic.  
 ANSWER: B - Distracted. Nonverbal cues are the elements of communication that involve gestures and facial  expressions rather than words. Nonverbal cues often express what the senders and recipients think  about their messages. If Colin was interested in the meeting topic or was listening to the speaker, he  would be directing his attention to the speaker. Since Colin was looking at his phone and text messaging,  he was distracted and was probably not paying attention to what the speaker was saying. The speaker  likely felt that Colin's nonverbal behavior was rude and inconsiderate. There is not enough information to  determine if Colin was annoyed.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 10. A recommended way to find out why the caller has phoned your business is to  
 A. ask the caller, "How may I help you?" 
 B. wait for the caller to ask questions. 
 C. ask the caller, "What did you want?"  
 D. answer promptly with a friendly greeting.  Copyright © 2014 by MBA Research and Curriculum Center®  , Columbus, Ohio  
 ANSWER: A - Ask the caller, "How may I help you?" This question requires callers to identify the purpose of their calls.  It is courteous, since you cannot provide assistance until you know what is needed. Asking, "What did  you want?" sounds abrupt and impolite. Waiting for callers to ask questions would waste your time and  that of the caller. Answering promptly with a friendly greeting is a guideline for giving good telephone  service, but would not identify the purpose of the call.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 11. When organizing information to present in a business report, it is effective to  
 A. determine the purpose. 
 B. interpret the data. 
 C. remain objective.  
 D. develop an outline.  
 ANSWER: D - Develop an outline. It is necessary to organize information in order to present it in a logical manner in a  business report. An effective way to organize information is to develop an outline. The outline serves as  the plan for the report, and helps the writer arrange the information in the order that will make the  message clear to readers. A writer determines the purpose of the report before gathering and interpreting  the data. Then, it is appropriate to develop an outline. It is important to remain objective while writing the  business report.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 12. As Kevin edits a professional report, he is not sure whether to italicize or underscore a book title. To  obtain the correct information, Kevin should  
 A. seek a coworker's opinion.  
 B. refer to the appropriate publisher's style manual.  
 C. look up the information in a current dictionary.  
 D. identify the readers' preferences.  
 ANSWER: B - Refer to the appropriate publisher's style manual. To provide consistency throughout written documents,  certain businesses or industries often follow a specific writing style, such as Associated Press (AP) or  Chicago Manual. Each style varies and often uses different styles and standards. For example, one style  may italicize book titles and another style may underscore book titles. Most style publishers post style  information on their websites, as well as in physical manuals or reference books. The best way to verify a  specific style or format is to consult the publisher's manual or website. Coworkers, dictionaries, and  readers are not the most reliable sources for publishing styles and standards.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 13. An effective technique to use when writing persuasive messages to customers is to  
 A. appeal to their needs. 
 B. demand their attention. 
 C. make a prediction.  
 D. use aggressive words.  
 ANSWER: A - Appeal to their needs. The purpose of writing persuasive messages is to convince customers to do  something, such as buy a product. To encourage them to take the correct action, it is important to appeal  to their needs and show them why it is a benefit to do what you want them to do. For example, if you  want customers to buy a new product, explain how that product will benefit them, such as by saving  money or speeding up production. Customers are more likely to respond favorably when they understand  how their needs will be satisfied. It is not effective to use aggressive words or demand a customer's  attention as these techniques often offend customers. Making a prediction is not as effective as stating a  fact or providing logical evidence to support your message.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 14. When participating in staff meetings with employees, the primary role of the department manager is to  
 A. expand the agenda. 
 B. follow formal protocol. 
 C. set time limits.  
 D. guide the discussion.  
 ANSWER: D - Guide the discussion. If a business is large, each department often has regular staff meetings so the  manager can communicate important information to employees and keep them informed about current  issues. When participating in these staff meetings, the department manager is the leader. The leader is  the person who runs the meeting, guides the discussion, and keeps the employees focused on the  agenda. As the leader, it may be necessary for the manager to encourage employees to participate or  prevent arguments. While guiding the meeting, the manager may set time limits or follow a formal  protocol; however these are secondary considerations or activities rather than the primary role. Managers  should follow the agenda they set for the staff meetings rather than expand it during the meeting.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 15. Businesses must keep in mind that word-of-mouth advertising can be  
 A. bought. 
 B. avoided. 
 C. negative.  
 D. inconsequential.  
 ANSWER: C - Negative. Businesses must keep in mind that word-of-mouth advertising can be negative as well as  positive. It's important for businesses to build positive customer relations so word-of-mouth advertising  will work in their favor, since it cannot be avoided, cannot be bought, and is very powerful.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 16. When a business communicates customer-centric values and ideals to its employees on a consistent  basis, it is developing its  
 A. organizational structure. 
 B. corporate culture. 
 C. technology.  
 D. trademarks.  
 ANSWER: B - Corporate culture. When a business communicates customer-centric values and ideals to its employees  on a consistent basis, it is developing its corporate culture. A customer-centric corporate culture is  essential for CRM success. Communicating values and ideals to employees does not develop  organizational structure, technology, or trademarks.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 17. Which of the following scenarios best illustrates a finance professional's commitment to customer  service:  
 A. Patricia wears a business suit every day, including casual Fridays.  
 B. Ann strives to solve customer problems promptly and accurately.  
 C. Jake takes a cellphone call while meeting with a customer.  
 D. Gennifer uses technical jargon when speaking with customers.  
 ANSWER: B - Ann strives to solve customer problems promptly and accurately. To meet or exceed customer  expectations, finance professionals should respond promptly to customer needs, requests, and problems.  While wearing a business suit every day can help to demonstrate a finance professional's commitment to  her/his job, doing so doesn't necessarily demonstrate the person's commitment to customer service.  Finance professionals should not take cellphone calls while meeting with customers, nor should they use  technical jargon. Instead, they should speak in simple terms that customers will understand.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 18. A stock broker is using Customer Relationship Management (CRM) technology to learn more about his  typical customer's purchasing pattern. The stock broker is using CRM technology to analyze the typical  customer  
 A. vintage. 
 B. duration. 
 C. trajectory.  
 D. touch point.  
 ANSWER: C - Trajectory. CRM technology is frequently used to measure and analyze a business's typical customer  trajectory, which is a pattern of purchases. Duration is the length of time that a customer stays a  customer. A vintage is a group of customers that are similar in some way. For instance, they might be  grouped together because they all became a business's customers in the same year. Touch points are all  of the opportunities that a business has to connect with customers and reinforce its brand image.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 19. What is the primary purpose of data-cleansing processes?  
 A. To correct non-response errors 
 B. To control the employees' intranet access 
 C. To maintain a useful customer database  
 D. To monitor the system for security breaches  
 ANSWER: C - To maintain a useful customer database. The data-cleansing process removes duplicate records,  updates expired data, and completes incomplete data fields. An effective data cleansing will result in a  database that contains useful, relevant, and accurate data. Having a "clean" database helps the  organization process good information to make sound business decisions. Businesses use a variety of  security software and procedures to control employees' access to their intranets and to monitor security  breaches. Businesses do not use data-cleansing processes to correct non-response errors on surveys.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 20. When producers use the best combination of resources, consumers are more likely to get goods and  services that  
 A. they want. 
 B. they do not need. 
 C. cost more.  
 D. are best known.  
 ANSWER: A - They want. Producers are responsible for choosing and using the best combination of resources. As  examples, they must decide if the number of workers is adequate; if the buildings, supplies, and  equipment are suitable; and if there are enough raw materials to produce their goods. Through such  actions, producers provide consumers with the types and quality of goods and services that they want.  Producers should try to keep their costs down but should not always purchase the least expensive  products if quality will be sacrificed. Likewise, purchasing the best-known resources may not be  appropriate for some businesses.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 21. Government protects consumers by establishing  
 A. a measure of effectiveness in government. 
 B. requirements for product testing. 
 C. rules to generate competition.  
 D. laws to monitor the growth of business.  
 ANSWER: B - Requirements for product testing. The government has passed many laws intended to protect  consumers. In addition to requiring product testing, these laws prohibit false advertising and deceptive  labeling, make food inspection mandatory, and set standards of safety in building construction. None of  these laws are intended to monitor business growth or to generate competition. Making government  effective does not necessarily protect consumers.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 22. What type of tax do businesses collect for items such as books, flowers, and shoes?  
 A. Income 
 B. Sales 
 C. Estate  
 D. Property  
 ANSWER: B - Sales. Governments levy taxes to raise money to pay for various programs and initiatives. Sales tax is  typically charged on nonessential goods such as books, flowers, and shoes. Businesses (e.g., retailers)  that sell the goods collect the sales tax from their customers and give the money to the government at set  intervals. Governments levy income taxes, which are based on earnings (e.g., wages). Inherited items  are subject to estate taxes. Governments levy property taxes on land and property.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 23. As office manager of a small consulting firm, Isabelle is in charge of processing payroll, tracking accounts  payable and receivable, negotiating terms with vendors, and preparing a variety of company reports. This  is an example of  
 A. job enlargement. 
 B. job rotation. 
 C. task specialization.  
 D. specialization by trade.  
 ANSWER: A - Job enlargement. Job enlargement involves combining different tasks into one position. Employees may  perform different types of tasks during the course of one day. Because Isabelle is not performing one  very specialized task day in and day out, she is less likely to become bored with her job. Job rotation  involves moving from one job to another job within an organization. Job rotation helps employees learn  new tasks and understand how a variety of tasks relate to others in the organization. Task specialization  involves becoming highly skilled in one, very small portion of a job. Specialization by trade is the type of  work that a person performs in order to earn a living, such as engineering, public relations, or accounting.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 24. The items that the local fish market sells to customers are included in which of the following categories of  gross domestic product:  
 A. Gross private domestic investment 
 B. Net exports of goods and services 
 C. Personal consumption expenditures  
 D. Government purchases of goods and services  
 ANSWER: C - Personal consumption expenditures. Personal consumption expenditures include the final market value  of all services and new and used goods purchased for consumption by individuals and nonprofit  institutions. Everything that individuals and families buy for personal use is counted in this GDP category.  The items sold by the local fish market are part of this category because they are purchased by  consumers for their personal consumption. Net exports of goods and services, gross private domestic  investment, and government purchases of goods and services are other categories of gross domestic  product, but they do not include items sold by a local fish market.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 25. When the inflation rate __________, the interest rates tend to __________.  
 A. increases, increase 
 B. increases, stabilize 
 C. decreases, increase  
 D. stabilizes, increase  
 ANSWER: A - Increases, increase. Interest is the reward or cost of lending or borrowing money, and this amount is  usually figured as a percentage of the amount of money borrowed. The interest rate is the percentage  figure used to calculate interest. Many factors affect interest rates, including government policies and the  business cycle. The nation's rate of inflation, which is how quickly prices are rising in the marketplace,  can affect interest rates. When the inflation rate increases rapidly, the interest rates also increase. This  occurs because there is less money available for financial institutions to loan to individuals and  businesses. When the inflation rate levels off, prices tend to stabilize, and in some situations, prices may  decrease.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 26. Which of the following tips will keep you from being too hard on yourself when assessing strengths and  weaknesses:  
 A. Minimize your strengths 
 B. Find a new weakness every day 
 C. Identify one strength for every weakness  
 D. Review your weaknesses each day  
 ANSWER: C - Identify one strength for every weakness. It's important to identify weaknesses, but it's destructive to  obsess over them. There's no need to review them each day or to find a new one each day. And, there's  certainly no need to minimize your strengths. Try to identify one strength for every weakness to keep  things in perspective.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 27. A customer asked, "What ties would you suggest with this shirt?" The salesperson responded, "Let me  show you some that would look wonderful with it." The salesperson is demonstrating  
 A. extensive product knowledge. 
 B. a negative attitude. 
 C. boredom and indifference.  
 D. interest and enthusiasm.  
 ANSWER: D - Interest and enthusiasm. The salesperson has shown an immediate interest in the customer's request  and given an enthusiastic response. The salesperson does not have a negative attitude, which would be  characterized by boredom and indifference. The extent of his/her product knowledge cannot be judged by  the response to a single question.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 28. A person who is willing to act without having to be told to do so is said to possess the trait of  
 A. tact. 
 B. empathy. 
 C. initiative.  
 D. selfishness.  
 ANSWER: C - Initiative. A person with initiative is willing to accept/seek additional duties and responsibilities without  having to be urged. The term empathy refers to a person's sensitivity to and understanding of others.  Tact refers to a person's ability to express his/her ideas and beliefs without offending others. Selfishness  means being overly concerned about one's own needs and interests.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 29. A business benefits from having employees who practice empathetic behavior because of the  __________ it creates.  
 A. impressive image 
 B. unharmonious relations 
 C. increased cooperation  
 D. departmental friction  
 ANSWER: C - Increased cooperation. Cooperation among workers creates a pleasant work atmosphere, and it is one of  the benefits of empathy in the workplace. Empathy is the ability to put yourself in another person's place,  and it fosters harmonious relations and reduces friction. It does not necessarily create an impressive  image.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 30. Which of the following statements supports the concept of cultural individualism:  
 A. The Chinese culture values group decision making and a "we're in this together" attitude.  
 B. The Latin American culture tends to view time in a more relaxed manner than other cultures.  
 C. Western cultures embrace the idea that working hard will reap personal rewards and fulfillment.  
 D. Middle-Eastern cultures tend to emphasize strict gender roles rather than diversity.  
 ANSWER: C - Western cultures embrace the idea that working hard will reap personal rewards and fulfillment. Culture  refers to the customs, habits, and traditions of a particular group of people. Because culture and cultural  differences affect business relationships, it is important for businesspeople to understand and adapt to  cultural differences in business situations (i.e., exhibit cultural sensitivity). Individualism is the degree to  which a group of people value independent work and accomplishments. Western culture (e.g., Canada,  United States, England) places a high value on individual accomplishments achieved through hard work.  On the other hand, collectivism is an emphasis on group work and accomplishments. Eastern cultures  (e.g., China, Japan) tend to value group decision making and accomplishments over individual efforts.  Time and gender roles are important considerations when exhibiting cultural sensitivity, but these factors  are not related to the concept of individualism.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 31. Refusing requests can be a particularly tough task  
 A. at work. 
 B. when you are sick. 
 C. for an aggressive person.  
 D. during the summer.  
 ANSWER: A - At work. Refusing requests can be a particularly tough task at work. There are times when you can't  reasonably say “no,” such as when your manager assigns you a new project or when a client has an  unbreakable deadline. However, there are times when saying “no” is necessary and even makes you a  better employee. Refusing requests isn't necessarily tougher when you are sick or during the summer.  Aggressive people usually have no trouble saying “no.”  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 32. Organizational vision and team vision differ in that team vision  
 A. is determined before organizational vision.  
 B. is often more specific than organizational vision.  
 C. is often more general than organizational vision.  
 D. does not complement organizational vision.  
 ANSWER: B - Is often more specific than organizational vision. Organizational vision and team vision differ in that team  vision is often more specific, not more general, than organizational vision because it addresses specific  work tasks. Team vision complements the organizational vision that has already been predetermined by  the company's leaders. Though the two visions may differ slightly, they will both be headed in the same  direction.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 33. What type of credit is commonly used to purchase large, expensive items such as cars?  
 A. Revolving 
 B. Regular 
 C. Budget  
 D. Installment  
 ANSWER: D - Installment. Installment credit is commonly used to purchase large, expensive items such as cars. The  title for an item purchased on installment credit is made out in the name of the credit user; however, the  seller retains a claim on the title until all of the payments have been made. Regular credit accounts are  used to obtain small-ticket items during a set period of time, usually 30 days. Budget credit accounts  advertise credit terms such as "90 Days Same as Cash." Revolving credit accounts involve setting a  credit limit and paying the amount due each month or making minimum, monthly payments on the  account.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 34. Who is legally responsible for repaying a bank loan if the loan borrower fails to make payments as  indicated in the loan contract?  
 A. Treasury Department 
 B. Credit union 
 C. Co-signer  
 D. Debt collectors  
 ANSWER: C - Co-signer. When a borrower agrees to a loan, s/he is making a contractual agreement to pay back the  loan in a certain manner within a specific period of time. When the borrower does not have the collateral  or credit history to obtain the loan, the lender often requests that another person co-sign for the loan. A  co-signer is responsible for paying back the loan if the borrower does not. The credit union, Treasury  Department, and debt collectors are not responsible for repaying a loan unless they agree to be co- signers on loan contracts.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 35. One reason why some businesses make investments and hold them for less than one year is to  
 A. reduce tax obligations. 
 B. monitor long-term wealth. 
 C. obtain short-term capital.  
 D. control inflation rates.  
 ANSWER: C - Obtain short-term capital. Businesses can make either short-term or long-term investments. Short-term  investments are those that a business holds for less than one year. Some businesses make short-term  investments to generate capital in a short amount of time. They might need short-term capital to finance  special projects or to expand the business. For example, a business invests $100,000 in a stock that is  appreciating in value by 15% annually. The business can sell the stock prior to the one-year point and  probably obtain the 15% increase which amounts to $15,000. Long-term wealth is capital that  accumulates over a period of several years. Businesses do not hold investments for less than one year to  reduce tax obligations or control inflation rates.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 36. Zach invested $300 in the stock market. With the stock market's average yearly gain of 10 percent, his  original $300 grew to $330 after one year. In two years' time, his $300 became $363. The year after that,  his original investment had become $399. Zach's investment grew as a result of  
 A. banking services. 
 B. opportunity cost. 
 C. compounding.  
 D. globalization.  
 ANSWER: C - Compounding. Compounding takes place whenever you earn interest on interest. It has the potential to  increase the value of an investment exponentially over time. Zach's original investment of $300 grew by  $30 over the first year. In the second year, Zach experienced a 10 percent gain on his original $300 plus  on the additional $30 that he had earned during the first year. In the third year, Zach experienced another  10 percent on his original $300 plus on the additional $63 that he had earned during the first two years.  Opportunity cost refers to the trade-off that occurs when you choose one alternative over another.  Banking services is a career area in which employees are primarily concerned with accepting deposits,  lending funds, and extending credit to bank customers. Globalization refers to the rapid and unimpeded  flow of capital, labor, and ideas across national borders.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 37. Which of the following records should individuals keep that contains information about their investments:  
 A. Deposit 
 B. Purchase 
 C. Logistics  
 D. Credit  
 ANSWER: B - Purchase. When individuals make investments, they receive purchase documents that include  information about the cost of the investment and any commissions or fees that were paid. Individuals  should keep these documents in their records to verify ownership and to be able to determine if it was a  good investment over a period of time. For example, the purchase record would indicate the cost  (perhaps it was $25 a share), the total amount purchased (100 shares for a total of $2,500), and a fee of  $30. By comparing the purchase records to actual value in five years, an individual will be able to decide  if the investment was worthwhile. Perhaps the cost per share is $40 a share in five years. An individual  might consider this to be a good return on the investment. Deposit and credit records usually do not  contain information about investments. Logistics refer to managing the flow of goods and services from  production to consumption.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 38. Which of the following is an example of a non-deposit financial institution:  
 A. Mutual savings bank 
 B. Credit union 
 C. Commercial bank  
 D. Mortgage company  
 ANSWER: D - Mortgage company. A primary function of a non-deposit financial institution is to lend money to qualified  customers. For example, mortgage companies arrange loans for individuals to purchase homes and for  businesses to purchase office buildings, production facilities, or warehouses. Deposit-taking financial  institutions accept funds from customers (depositors) and pay interest on the accepted funds. Credit  unions, commercial banks, savings and loan associations (banks), and mutual savings banks are types  of deposit-taking financial institutions.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 39. Deposit-taking institutions are commonly responsible for  
 A. raising funds for clients by issuing securities.  
 B. making payments on behalf of savers to creditors.  
 C. carrying out regulatory and supervisory functions.  
 D. using funds from insurance premiums to offer loans.  
 ANSWER: B - Making payments on behalf of savers to creditors. Deposit-taking institutions commonly accept deposits  (funds) from savers and use those deposits to make payments on behalf of savers to individuals, firms,  and creditors to whom the savers owe money. Deposit-taking institutions, which include commercial  banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations, trust companies, and mortgage companies, also use  those deposits to offer loans to borrowers. Investment banks, which are investment institutions, raise  funds for clients by issuing securities. Government and semigovernment financial institutions carry out  regulatory and supervisory functions. They also increase the funds available to investors, manage risk,  and assume risk. Insurance companies, which are categorized as finance and insurance institutions, use  funds from premiums to offer loans. They also manage and pool individuals' risk, invest funds to raise  more capital, and create investment products.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 40. How are very small companies and companies with poor credit ratings most likely to trade their stock?  
 A. On the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB)  
 B. On the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)  
 C. On the Toronto Stock Exchange (TSX)  
 D. On the American Stock Exchange (AMEX)  
 ANSWER: A - On the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). Very small companies that don't meet organized  exchange listing requirements as well as companies with poor credit ratings are likely to trade their stock  on the Over the Counter Bulletin Board (OTCBB). The OTCBB is a regulated electronic exchange with no  listing requirements. Therefore, stocks traded on the OTCBB are likely to be riskier investments than  stocks traded on organized exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange or the Toronto Stock  Exchange. The American Stock Exchange is an organized exchange which became the NYSE Amex  Equities in 2009.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 41. A primary factor that has led to the consolidation of financial firms is the desire  
 A. to lower risks. 
 B. for fewer assets. 
 C. for fewer products.  
 D. to lower costs.  
 ANSWER: D - To lower costs. Consolidation is the merging of financial providers within the same institutional category.  For example, consolidation occurs when two banks merge to form one bank. By consolidating, the  financial firms can achieve economies of scale, which result in reduced redundancy and lower costs.  Consolidation can increase the assets (liquid capital) for all of the financial firms involved. Consolidation  can also provide consumers with a wider range of financial products. Consolidation may or may not lower  business risk.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 42. What type of financial firm offers multiple types of financial products using one pool of capital?  
 A. Consolidated cross-product parent company 
 B. Universal bank and trust corporation 
 C. Financial holding company  
 D. Fully integrated financial services provider  
 ANSWER: D - Fully integrated financial services provider. There are several different types of financial firms that offer  integrated financial services. A fully integrated financial services provider offers multiple types of financial  products (e.g., loans, insurance, trust services, etc.) using one pool of capital. A universal bank is a  corporate entity that offers banking products directly to customers but also sells other financial products,  especially insurance, through subsidiaries. Each subsidiary has its own pool of capital. A financial holding  company, also known as a parent company, owns most or all of the shares of individually incorporated  subsidiaries that engage in different types of financial activities. Like subsidiaries of a universal bank,  each subsidiary of a financial holding company has its own pool of capital. Universal bank and trust  corporations and consolidated cross-product parent companies are fictitious terms.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 43. Which of the following is an example of arbitrage:  
 A. An individual buys 10 shares of stock for $150 per share on one market, and immediately sells  
 B. An individual earns interest on his/her money by agreeing to leave it in a financial institution for a  
 C. A business places a percentage of its income into a retirement account for employees.  
 D. A business sells corporate bonds to obtain funds to finance major expansion efforts.  
 ANSWER: A - An individual buys 10 shares of stock for $150 per share on one market, and immediately sells each  share for $200 on another market. Arbitrage is profiting from the sale of a financial instrument (e.g.,  stock) or good on a different market. Arbitrage often involves the buying and selling of goods and other  types of services. For example, a person who buys a set of football tickets from a sport organization for  $100 and sells them on E-bay to another person for $500 is engaging in arbitrage. When an individual  earns interest on his/her money by agreeing to leave it in a financial institution for a certain timeframe,  s/he is investing in a certificate of deposit. Businesses that set aside money for their employees'  retirement are contributing to a pension plan. A business that sells bonds is using debt financing to raise  funds for its expansion efforts.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 44. When the Consumer Price Index (CPI) increases sharply, stock prices usually  
 A. fluctuate daily. 
 B. rise. 
 C. stay the same.  
 D. fall.  each share for $200 on another market.  certain timeframe.  
 ANSWER: D - Fall. The Consumer Price Index measures the prices of consumer goods. In the U.S., it is published  monthly by the Bureau of Labor Statistics. However, most experts conduct a “year-on-year” comparison  to better understand increases and/or decreases in the CPI. An increase in the CPI signals an increase in  inflation. A sharp increase in inflation causes interest rates and bond values to rise and stock prices to  fall.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 45. Financial globalization helps investors to reduce their exposure to  
 A. regulatory liberalization. 
 B. speculative bubbles. 
 C. business cycle risks.  
 D. capital appreciation.  
 ANSWER: C - Business cycle risks. By investing their funds in many different countries, investors are able to diversify  their risk and reduce their exposure to business cycle risks. However, financial globalization seems to  increase the risks of “speculative bubbles” and “herd behavior” of investors. Liberalization is the removal  of government regulations on the flow of capital and international trade. Many countries around the world  have reduced or eliminated limits on foreigners' access to their financial markets. Capital appreciation  occurs when stock that a person owns becomes worth more than what the person paid for it. Capital  appreciation is a positive aspect of investing, not something to avoid.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 46. Which of the following is a question that investors should ask prospective financial planners:  
 A. How many references do I need to provide? 
 B. How are your fees structured? 
 C. What is your income?  
 D. Where did you attend school?  
 ANSWER: B - How are your fees structured? Because financial planners are compensated in different ways, it is  important to consider the fee structure when selecting a financial-services provider. Some financial  planners charge a flat fee, while others base their fees on the number and size of transactions. Some  financial planners charge for research and consulting time. Therefore, it is important to ask financial  planners about their fee structures, so investors can determine if they can afford the fees. A financial  planner may provide references for a potential client, but the potential client does not generally need to  provide the financial planner with references. It is inappropriate to ask the financial planner about his/her  personal income. Where the financial planner attended school is irrelevant.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 47. What is an example of an internal stock information resource?  
 A. Brokerage firm research 
 B. The ValueLine Investment Survey 
 C. A company's annual report  
 D. A financial website portal  
 ANSWER: C - A company's annual report. A company's annual report is an example of an internal source, because it  comes from the company itself. The ValueLine Investment Survey, brokerage firm research, and financial  web portals are all examples of external stock information resources.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 48. If a stock price rises and falls sharply within a 52-week period, it is said to be  
 A. volatile. 
 B. stable. 
 C. healthy.  
 D. solid.  
 ANSWER: A - Volatile. Prices that rise and fall sharply are said to be volatile. Stable, healthy, or solid are not words that  would be used to describe a volatile stock.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 49. The creation of new products which can cause the demand cycle for other products to be shortened is an  example of ___________ risk.  
 A. economic 
 B. controlled 
 C. natural  
 D. human  
 ANSWER: A - Economic. Technological developments are a type of economic risk that cannot be controlled. Human  risk is caused by human weaknesses and/or unpredictability. Natural risks result from natural causes  such as fire, weather conditions, and perishability.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 50. A manager is most likely to use financial information when  
 A. researching the demographics of a new target market.  
 B. determining resources available to fund a new project.  
 C. calculating the number of on-the-job injuries in the past year.  
 D. establishing lines of authority within an organization.  
 ANSWER: B - Determining resources available to fund a new project. Managers use financial information on many  occasions, including when planning strategies, executing strategies, and evaluating the execution of  strategies. For example, a manager would use financial information to determine what financial resources  are available to fund a new project that s/he is planning. To research the demographics of a new target  market, information gathered through market research would be more useful. Financial information is not  used to calculate the number of on-the-job injuries or to establish lines of authority within an organization.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 51. What should accountants demonstrate when collecting accounting information and preparing financial  documents?  
 A. Professional integrity 
 B. An innovative attitude 
 C. A collaborative mindset  
 D. Empathy and flexibility  
 ANSWER: A - Professional integrity. Demonstrating integrity involves adhering to an established set of personal ethics  and sound moral principles. Ethics are the basic principles that govern an individual's behavior. The role  of ethics in accounting is to serve as a guide for professional conduct. This is important because  accounting involves keeping and interpreting financial records, which managers and stakeholders use to  make decisions about the business. Therefore, accounting professionals must demonstrate professional  integrity to ensure that the information they collect and present is accurate and objective. Although  innovation, collaboration, empathy, and flexibility are admirable traits, preparing accurate and objective  financial information does not require accounting professionals to demonstrate these characteristics.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 52. Which of the following situations could be prevented through the use of a financial-information  management system:  
 A. A financial institution's server crashing and preventing employees from entering customer  
 B. Customer service sending brochures about the company's loans to people who've just taken out  
 C. Different versions of a database application being incompatible so that financial information  
 D. Elimination of mergers and acquisitions in the finance industry  
 ANSWER: B - Customer service sending brochures about the company's loans to people who've just taken out loans  with the company. Financial-information management systems tie financial transaction data with non- financial transaction data so that money is not wasted on promoting financial products to those who've  just obtained the financial product. They encompass both processes and technologies to manage data  about finances, internal operational information, and external market and competitive indicators. Use of a  financial-information management system will not keep a company's computer from crashing, nor will it  keep different versions of a database application from being incompatible. Mergers and acquisitions  present a challenge to the finance industry in terms of financial-information management; however, its  use will not eliminate mergers and acquisitions from happening.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 53. Which of the following statements regarding the financial-information management function is true:  
 A. The financial-information management function's responsibilities have declined in recent years.  
 B. The financial-information management function is an electronic, web-based activity.  
 C. A financial-information management system can be used to support operations management  
 D. Data in a financial-information management system are typically at least four to six months old.  
 ANSWER: C - A financial-information management system can be used to support operations management decisions.  Operations managers might use a financial-information management system to determine operating  efficiency, manage inventory, or evaluate key suppliers. Although technology is an integral part of  financial-information management function, it is not the only part. The financial-information management  function involves people, processes, and equipment/technology. Due to increased compliance  requirements, the financial-information management function's responsibilities have increased in recent  years. Much more data must be maintained by the financial-information management system for longer  periods of time as a result of new laws and regulations. Data in a financial-information management  system should be current. In many situations, decision makers need to know what is happening right  now, not what happened months or even years ago.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 54. How can a business maintain its ethical responsibility of protecting the privacy of its customers' financial  information?  
 A. Develop collection procedures 
 B. Implement security policies 
 C. Monitor competitors' activities  
 D. Review inventory systems  payments  loans with the company  cannot be shared  decisions.  
 ANSWER: B - Implement security policies. Businesses have an ethical responsibility to maintain the privacy of their  customers' financial information. Businesses must take precautions to ensure that customers' credit,  loan, and other types of financial data are kept confidential. To maintain confidentiality, businesses must  develop and implement security policies. The policies may restrict the employees' access to customers'  financial information. The policies may also involve the use of computer safety measures, such as  firewalls and encryption techniques. Collection procedures are the activities that the business uses to  collect funds owed by others. Developing collection procedures, monitoring competitors' activities, and  reviewing inventory systems are not actions that will help businesses protect the privacy of their  customers' financial information.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 55. More consistent and up-to-date data, faster response to queries, and economies of scale are benefits of  using a(n) __________ to store financial data.  
 A. intrusion detection system 
 B. disparate data system 
 C. central data repository  
 D. financial holding company  
 ANSWER: C - Central data repository. A central data repository is a comprehensive database containing financial data  from throughout the organization. By compiling all of these data in one large, powerful database, the data  are more consistent and up-to-date, managers can get faster responses to their queries, and the  organization enjoys economies of scale in the realm of financial-information management. Disparate data  systems contain multiple databases scattered throughout the enterprise that do not necessarily work  together or contain consistent information. An intrusion detection system is a technological safeguard  used to ensure the security of financial information. A financial holding company is a company that owns  most or all of the shares of individually incorporated subsidiaries that engage in different types of financial  activities.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 56. What is a primary purpose of data mining?  
 A. To calculate statistical ratios 
 B. To identify hidden patterns 
 C. To collect data from vendors  
 D. To resolve unidentified problems  
 ANSWER: B - To identify hidden patterns. Data mining is the process of searching computer databases to look for  patterns and relationships among information, some of which are not obvious. For example, data mining  might reveal that a credit-card company's customers often use their credit cards to buy gasoline on  Thursday afternoons between 3:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. The business could use this information to  develop special programs or promotions to appeal to these customers. The data-mining process might  involve sifting through a vendor's data, or it might reveal problems; however, the primary purpose of data  mining is not to calculate statistical ratios, collect data from vendors, or resolve unidentified problems.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 57. Alyssa is starting a small business out of her home. When she accesses a business "how-to" website,  Alyssa finds software downloads and printable worksheets that will help her plan and manage her  business's income and expenses. The software and worksheets are types of  
 A. legal data. 
 B. budgeting tools. 
 C. statistical information.  
 D. organizational charts.  
 ANSWER: B - Budgeting tools. A budget is an estimate of income and expense for a specific timeframe. A budget is an  important financial tool that helps the business manage its money. Many websites provide budgeting  tools such as software downloads or free printable worksheets. Legal data, statistical information, and  organizational charts are not tools that help small-business owners plan and manage their income and  expenses.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 58. Primary functions of basic budgeting software applications include forecasting and  
 A. sequencing. 
 B. materials allocation. 
 C. scheduling.  
 D. debt management.  
 ANSWER: D - Debt management. The primary function of budgeting software is to help a business forecast and monitor  income and expenses for all of its functions including sales, promotion, production, payroll, etc. Advanced  software can generate different types of reports by integrating financial data from a variety of sources  (e.g., cash flows, “what if” scenarios) to help the business make decisions about how to best manage its  debt (expenses). Businesses often use production-management or project-management software for  scheduling and sequencing and for allocating materials for production or a project.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 59. Businesses often use computer-spreadsheet software for “what-if” financial planning by plugging in  different numerical data into formulas, which provide possible  
 A. distribution methods. 
 B. production strategies. 
 C. financial outcomes.  
 D. accounting standards.  
 ANSWER: C - Financial outcomes. Computer spreadsheet software has the ability to calculate formulas and organize  numerical data. When a business inputs different values or sets of numerical data in a spreadsheet, the  spreadsheet software calculates the values or sets of data, which provides different outcomes based on  the values or sets of data that were used. By reviewing the various outcomes, the business can  determine the best course of action to take under particular circumstances; the “what ifs” of specific  situations. Production strategies are the activities used to produce goods and services. Distribution  methods are the strategies that a business uses to make sure that products are delivered to the right  people at the right place at the right time. Accounting standards are the degrees to which accounting  practices (financial recordkeeping) meet certain criteria.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 60. What is a drawback of using suffix trees in database management systems?  
 A. They use a lot of space. 
 B. They are unspecialized data structures. 
 C. They support disjointed substring queries.  
 D. They are balanced.  
 ANSWER: A - They use a lot of space. Suffix trees are data structures used to speed up exact matches of a query  sequence in a database. Their use does consume a lot of space. Other drawbacks of suffix trees are that  they are unbalanced, that they represent specialized data structures, and that they support contiguous  substring queries.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 61. Which of the following is a likely consequence of reporting inaccurate financial data to lenders and  investors:  
 A. Civil and/or criminal penalties 
 B. A large influx of capital 
 C. Two-for-one stock splits  
 D. An economic contraction  
 ANSWER: A - Civil and/or criminal penalties. If a business misleads lenders and investors with inaccurate financial data,  the company's executives, financial managers, and other personnel may face civil and/or criminal  penalties for their wrongdoing. Although inaccurate financial data may tempt some individuals to invest in  the company, civil and/or criminal penalties are a more likely consequence. Inaccurate financial data are  not likely to cause a two-for-one stock split. The actions of just one company are not likely to cause the  economy to contract.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 62. Investors and financial analysts are most likely to study a publicly-traded company's financial statements  
 A. assess the effectiveness of the firm's risk-management system.  
 B. identify new products that the firm plans to introduce next year.  
 C. determine the size and makeup of the firm's workforce.  
 D. measure the firm's competitiveness and performance.  
 ANSWER: D - Measure the firm's competitiveness and performance. Because many investors and financial analysts  look at a business's financial statements to measure the firm's competitiveness and performance, the  business should make every effort to report its financial position accurately. If it does not, investors and  financial analysts may shy away from purchasing the company's stock. If the company's financial  statements underestimate its performance, investors and financial analysts may avoid the company  because it looks unprofitable. And, if the financial statements are overly positive, investors and financial  analysts may come to distrust the company because it overstates its success. A company's financial  statements are not likely to help investors and financial analysts to identify new products that the firm  plans to introduce next year, determine the size and makeup of the firm's workforce, or assess the  effectiveness of the firm's risk-management system.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 63. Which of the following activities would occur in finance rather than in accounting:  
 A. Processing accounts receivable 
 B. Preparing payroll 
 C. Securing business credit  
 D. Developing depreciation schedules  
 ANSWER: C - Securing business credit. Finance is the function of business that involves all money and money  management matters. The purpose of the finance function is to boost a company's growth and reduce its  risks. One way the finance function boosts a company's growth is by securing appropriate business  credit. Finance managers use accounting information to make financial decisions about the company.  Accounting is a finance activity that involves keeping and interpreting financial records. Preparing payroll,  processing accounts receivable, and developing depreciation schedules are activities performed by the  accounting function.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 64. Which of the following accounting systems provides businesses with a better picture of their net profits for  each accounting period by matching income earned in a period against the expenses of the period:  
 A. Perpetual 
 B. Cash 
 C. Managerial  
 D. Accrual  
 ANSWER: D - Accrual. The accrual accounting system records transactions at the time they occur even if no money  changes hands at the time, such as a purchase made with credit. Most businesses use this method  because it more accurately reflects the business's overall financial position. The cash accounting method  records income and expenditures at the time the money changes hands; this can result in income and  expenses not appearing in the same time period. Managerial accounting provides financial information  internally to managers, which helps them make appropriate business decisions. Perpetual is a type of  inventory system that updates inventory information on a continuous basis as transactions occur.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 65. Auto mechanics and attorneys are likely to use a __________ cost accounting system.  
 A. process 
 B. job order 
 C. consumer  
 D. cyclic  
 ANSWER: B - Job order. Businesses that can track their costs to a specific job or order often use a job order cost  accounting system. Attorneys can usually identify which client should be charged for certain expenses,  while auto mechanics charge each client individually for the parts and labor needed to repair his/her  automobile. Process cost accounting works well for businesses that produce standard products  continuously. Consumer and cyclic cost accounting systems are fictitious terms.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 66. Which of the following is essential to the identification of trends in financial data for a horizontal analysis:  
 A. Data from a zero-based budget  
 B. Data from the most recent financial report  
 C. Data in a Statement of Cash Flows  
 D. Data in financial reports from multiple time periods  
 ANSWER: D - Data in financial reports from multiple time periods. Trends indicate the direction that something is  headed. They depict patterns. Horizontal analysis requires the comparison of data over a period of time.  You cannot look at a single financial report and spot trends for a horizontal analysis.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 67. By analyzing a customer's financial information, a finance professional should be able to  
 A. develop a financial strategy to help the customer.  
 B. declare Chapter 11 bankruptcy for the customer.  
 C. protect the security of the customer's financial information.  
 D. determine the customer's newest target market.  
 ANSWER: A - Develop a financial strategy to help the customer. Whether the finance professional works internally or  externally, or works with individuals or businesses, s/he should be able to analyze the customer's  financial information to recommend an appropriate financial strategy for the "customer." Business  management would declare a company in bankruptcy based on information provided by the finance  professional. Just having a customer's financial information requires finance professionals to protect its  privacy—analysis is not required. The customer's marketing department would determine its newest  target market, while the finance professional will measure the target market's profitability.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 68. When a business reviews a customer's credit application, it is evaluating risks associated with the  
 A. customer's ability to pay. 
 B. business's accounting processes. 
 C. customer's beneficiaries.  
 D. business's reporting strategies.  
 ANSWER: A - Customer's ability to pay. Credit is the arrangement by which businesses or individuals can purchase  now and pay later. Before offering credit to a prospective customer, the business needs to analyze the  customer's financial status to determine if the customer has the money available to make payments on  time and in the full amount of the agreement. Businesses review the customer's income, assets, debt  ratio, credit history, etc. If the customer's financial status meets the business's credit standards, then a  credit arrangement is a viable option. If the customer carries high debt in relation to assets, it would be  too risky for the business to offer credit because the customer is more likely to become delinquent. The  business does not analyze risks related to its own accounting processes or reporting strategies. A  beneficiary is a person who receives benefits, most often money, from another person. For example, a  beneficiary of a life-insurance policy receives money upon the insured's death.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 69. Which of the following is a reason to analyze financial data:  
 A. To understand accounting treatment  
 B. To identify products which need to be recalled  
 C. To determine a business's qualitative characteristics  
 D. To develop financial models  
 ANSWER: A - To understand accounting treatment. By reviewing a business's financial data, a finance professional can  learn whether the business is using accrual or cash accounting methods. With the accrual method,  transactions are recorded at the time they occur, rather than when payment is received or made. With  cash accounting, transactions are recorded when payment is received or made. The accrual method is  used by most businesses since it allows the current cash flows to be combined with future expected cash  flows, thereby giving a more accurate picture of a company's current financial condition. Cash accounting  presents a more conservative view of a company's financial situation; therefore, it's important to analyze  financial data to determine the accounting treatment that has been used. Marketing and management  determine what products need to be recalled. Recalls are generally due to safety issues. Financial data  are quantitative data rather than qualitative data. Financial models are used in analyzing financial data  rather than being an outcome of the analysis.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 70. What should a business analyze to determine if it has the necessary funds available to pay its creditors  for the next two weeks?  
 A. Capital-investment plan 
 B. Business plan 
 C. Cash-flow statement  
 D. Mutual-funds statement  
 ANSWER: C - Cash-flow statement. The cash-flow statement is a financial summary that contains estimates as to  when, where, and how much money will flow into and out of a business. Analyzing the cash-flow  statement will help a business determine if it will have enough money coming in to pay its short-term  expenses. The business plan is the business's written business model—it describes how the business  will achieve its objectives. The capital-investment plan describes the business's assets and how the  business plans to use them over time. A mutual-funds statement is a status report sent to investors to let  them know how their mutual funds are performing.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 71. When HR management executives participate in a company's long-range planning efforts, they are taking  part in  
 A. financial analysis. 
 B. marketing. 
 C. budgeting.  
 D. strategic management.  
 ANSWER: D - Strategic management. When HR management executives participate in a company's long-range  planning efforts, they are taking part in strategic management. Strategic management may take into  account marketing, budgeting, and financial analysis, but HR managers will be present to ensure that the  company is planning now to have the human resources it needs tomorrow.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 72. Which of the following is an environmental factor that influences a business's buying behavior:  
 A. Business structure 
 B. Competition 
 C. Subculture  
 D. Family  
 ANSWER: B - Competition. Competition is an environmental (external) factor that can influence a business's buying  behavior. A business can't control its competition, but it may respond to it through creating new products  or promotions, which can require changes in buying habits. Business structure is an internal,  organizational factor that influences buying behavior. Subculture and family are two factors that influence  individual consumers' buying behavior.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 73. One way for a person to verify the reliability of an online article's information is by  
 A. gathering internal reports from the company's database.  
 B. evaluating the author's writing style.  
 C. comparing the information with other articles about the topic.  
 D. asking others for their opinions.  
 ANSWER: C - Comparing the information with other articles about the topic. When other articles from reputable sources  confirm the information from the original article, the information in the original article is more likely to be  reliable. Evaluating the author's writing style, gathering internal reports from the company's database,  and asking others for their opinions are not actions that will verify the reliability of the article's information.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 74. Global positioning systems (GPS) rely on the use of what type of technology?  
 A. Satellite technology 
 B. Voice over Internet Protocol 
 C. Cellphone technology  
 D. The Internet  
 ANSWER: A - Satellite technology. Global positioning systems (GPS) rely on the use of satellite technology. Businesses  use GPS to find directions, track shipments, etc. Voice over Internet Protocol is a type of technology that  allows users to make voice and video calls online, rather than through traditional public networks.  Cellphone technology allows users to make calls anywhere, any time. Though users might be able to  check satellite information online, GPS do not rely on the Internet.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 75. Internet Explorer is an example of __________ software.  
 A. cookie 
 B. bookmark 
 C. computer server  
 D. web browser  
 ANSWER: D - Browser. A browser is software that allows a computer to access information on the Internet. It has the  capability of searching for and locating information on the Web and displaying that information, which  then can be printed or saved. Microsoft's Internet Explorer is an example of a web browser. Mozilla  Firefox is another browser. A cookie is a bit of information that a website collects about each viewer. A  bookmark is Internet Explorer's term for marking a website for later reference. A server is a computer that  provides services to another computer.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 76. Which of the following is a business trend that might affect a local company:  
 A. Social behavior 
 B. Domestic transportation 
 C. Global competition  
 D. Physical environment  
 ANSWER: C - Global competition. Businesses throughout the world are competing for the same customers as a result  of technological advances. Improved communication and transportation methods have made goods and  services available to previously untapped markets. Consequently, foreign businesses are selling to  customers who formerly bought goods only from local companies. The foreign competitor has an impact  on a local business and may force it to lower prices or offer additional services in order to survive.  Physical environment, domestic transportation, and social behavior are not business trends.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 77. Which of the following is a factor that relates to the government category of an environmental scan:  
 A. Import/Export regulations 
 B. Religious affiliation 
 C. Stage of the business cycle  
 D. Advances in technology  
 ANSWER: A - Import/Export regulations. Import/Export regulations are a factor that relates to government. The  government can have a great influence on a business's decision making, so it is important to include  government in any environmental scan. Religious affiliation is a piece of demographic data. Stage of the  business cycle relates to the economy. Advances in technology will be scanned in a separate category.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 78. Determine the mode for a customer-survey question using the following statistical information:  7, 5, 3, 7, 7, 9, 5, 7, 9, 9  
 A. 9 
 B. 3 
 C. 5  
 D. 7  
 ANSWER: D - 7. Central tendency refers to a type of average. Mode is a measure of central tendency and is the  number that appears most frequently in a group of numbers. A business might determine the mode so it  can identify the most common responses for questions appearing on a customer survey. The business  assigns a numerical value to each response option on the survey. For example, the response, "extremely  satisfied with service," might have a value of nine. To determine the mode, count the number of times  each value appears (3 appears 1 time; 5 appears 2 times; 9 appears 3 times; and 7 appears 4 times).  The highest number of times a number appears is the mode (7).  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 79. Kelly works at a manufacturing plant that produces laminated furniture and accessories. Kelly believes  that the fumes from adhesive used in the production process is making many of the plant's employees  sick. To which of the following organizations can Kelly anonymously file complaints about workplace  safety and health hazards?  
 A. OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for  
 B. BLS (Bureau of Labor Statistics)/Statistics Canada  
 C. FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration)/CFIA (Canadian Food Inspection Agency)  
 D. HHS (Department of Health and Human Services)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for Occupational  
 ANSWER: A - OSHA (Occupational Safety and Health Administration)/CCOHS (Canadian Centre for Occupational  Health and Safety). OSHA (in the U.S.) and CCOHS (in Canada) are responsible for ensuring workplace  safety. Both agencies work to prevent work-related illnesses and injuries. Employees can anonymously  file complaints to OSHA and CCOHS about workplace safety and health hazards. The FDA is  responsible for protecting U.S. public health by assuring the safety, efficacy, and security of human and  veterinary drugs, biological products, medical devices, our nation's food supply, cosmetics, and products  that emit radiation. The CFIA oversees the safety of the Canadian food supply. The BLS is the principal  fact-finding agency for the U.S. government in the broad field of labor economics and statistics. Statistics  Canada is a federal agency responsible for providing data about Canada's population, resources,  economy, etc. The HHS protects the health of all Americans and provides essential human services,  especially for those who are least able to help themselves.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 80. Which of the following is a true statement about identifying project deliverables:  
 A. A project manager needs to identify only one deliverable per project.  
 B. It's important to get expected deliverables in writing from the client.  
 C. It's a task that also includes creating a schedule for finishing the deliverables.  
 D. It's a task that occurs about halfway through the project-planning process.  
 ANSWER: B - It's important to get expected deliverables in writing from the client. Before you can plan, you must know  exactly what your deliverables are. This task occurs right after you determine the project's purpose and  scope, not halfway through the planning process. A project may have several deliverables. Creating a  schedule does not come until later in the project-planning process. It is true, however, that project  managers should get expected deliverables from the client in writing.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 81. Doormats, carpeting, telephones, and cleaning chemicals are all items that an office might buy for  
 A. negotiations. 
 B. production. 
 C. business use.  
 D. competitive bidding.  
 ANSWER: C - Business use. Doormats, carpeting, telephones, and cleaning chemicals are all items that an office might  buy for its own use, rather than for resale or transformation. These items would not be purchased for  production, negotiations, or competitive bidding.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 82. Which of the following is the first step in the bidding process:  
 A. Negotiating terms  
 B. Developing a request for proposal  
 C. Identifying needs  
 D. Assessing each bidder's strengths and weaknesses  
 ANSWER: C - Identifying needs. The first step in the bidding process is identifying needs. For example, if a business  wants to upgrade its computer system, it must determine the software it needs for employees to perform  various business functions. After identifying needs, the business can develop a request for proposal  (RFP) to send to potential vendors or contractors. The RFP summarizes the details about the business's  needs, bid requirements, and deadlines. After the business obtains the bids, it can assess each bidder's  strengths and weaknesses. Then, the business selects and negotiates terms with the vendor.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 83. If a business's fixed costs are high in relation to its variable costs, a major increase in sales with very little  increase in variable costs should  
 A. change the break-even point. 
 B. increase net profit. 
 C. reduce fixed costs.  
 D. increase the cost of goods sold.  
 ANSWER: B - Increase net profit. Net profit is the money remaining after operating expenses are subtracted from gross  profit. Operating expenses consist of fixed costs and variable costs. Fixed costs are expenses that do not  change with sales volume, while variable costs fluctuate with changes in sales volume. Therefore, if sales  increase without much increase in variable costs, and fixed costs remain the same, a larger net profit  should result. The cost of goods sold is independent of the relationship between fixed/variable costs and  sales. Break-even point is the level of sales at which revenues equal total costs.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 84. A financial institution that fails to remove out-of-date promotional materials or empty sign holders from  counters is neglecting important __________ activities.  
 A. security 
 B. maintenance 
 C. housekeeping  
 D. remodeling  
 ANSWER: C - Housekeeping. Housekeeping chores include arranging materials, cleaning shelves and counter areas,  and removing unnecessary items. Regular housekeeping activities are necessary in order to keep the  premises in a clean, organized condition. Counters littered with out-of-date promotional materials and  empty sign holders indicate a lack of general housekeeping, which reflects poorly on the business and  may offend potential customers. Maintenance activities include repairing equipment and fixtures and  periodically remodeling the facilities. Security activities are involved with the safety of customers and  employees.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 85. Which of the following terms is often used to define creativity:  
 A. A setting 
 B. An element 
 C. A phase  
 D. A process  
 ANSWER: D - A process. Creativity is often identified as the process of allowing new perspectives and of coming up  with innovative ways of doing things. This process usually incorporates many elements and goes through  many phases. Often, creativity involves taking elements from two or more different settings and applying  them to a particular situation.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 86. Greg is 23 and just started his first job out of college. He wants to work on the New York Stock  Exchange by the time he's 40 years old. What type of goal is this?  
 A. Long term; decided by your boss 
 B. Long term; decided by yourself 
 C. Short term; decided by yourself  
 D. Short term; decided by your boss  
 ANSWER: B - Long term; decided by yourself. Goals are statements that you make, telling yourself what you want to  achieve. Goals come in many shapes and sizes. Some you decide for yourself, and some your boss or  supervisor decides for you. Some are long term, and some are short term. Greg's goal of working on the  New York Stock Exchange by the time he's 40 is a long-term goal, decided by himself, because it won't  be achieved until well into the future.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 87. Maria's teacher says she has an aptitude for science. Which of the following may explain why Maria has  an aptitude for science:  
 A. Maria's father is a microbiologist.  
 B. She and her friends attend lectures at the science center each month.  
 C. She received a microscope for a gift last year.  
 D. Maria believes that it is important to protect the environment.  Occupational Health and Safety)  Health and Safety)  
 ANSWER: A - Maria's father is a microbiologist. Aptitudes are innate and may be inherited. Interests are influenced by  outside forces, such as friends, classes, or tools such as the microscope. A person's ethics influence  his/her beliefs, interests, and choices.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 88. Which of the following is a financial concern that entrepreneurs often face when starting new businesses:  
 A. Long working hours 
 B. Irregular paychecks 
 C. Shorter vacations  
 D. Lower production standards  
 ANSWER: B - Irregular paychecks. Entrepreneurs experience many types of challenges as they start and grow their  businesses. A financial concern often involves irregular paychecks or unpredictable income. It often takes  a while for a new venture to gain business and earn a profit, so the entrepreneur often doesn't receive  income or get paid at regular intervals. Long working hours and shorter vacations are factors related to  the entrepreneur's personal commitment to his/her business. Production standards are specifications  related to the process of making or producing goods and services.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 89. How do credit unions differ from commercial banks?  
 A. They are created and owned by members. 
 B. They offer higher interest rates. 
 C. They offer higher fees.  
 D. There are no requirements for membership.  
 ANSWER: A - They are created and owned by members. Credit unions differ from commercial banks in that they are  created and owned by their members. Membership is based on a common link among members, such as  employment at the same company or residence in the same county. Credit unions usually offer lower  fees and interests rates than commercial banks.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 90. One of the main reasons why businesses participate in trade shows is to  
 A. research their market. 
 B. meet their competitors. 
 C. promote their products.  
 D. train their salespeople.  
 ANSWER: C - Promote their products. One of the main reasons why businesses participate in trade shows is to  promote their products to new and existing customers. Businesses display their products at trade shows  and have staff on hand to answer questions. Trade shows offer an opportunity for businesses to present  their products to many potential customers in one place and at one time. Businesses do not train their  salespeople at trade shows. Although businesses may meet their competitors at trade shows, that is not  the primary reason for participating. Businesses research their market before participating in trade  shows.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 91. Because regulations and financial products change, financial planners are usually required to take  continuing-education classes every year so they can  
 A. maintain their certification. 
 B. enhance their reputation. 
 C. train their employees.  
 D. start new businesses.  
 ANSWER: A - Maintain their certification. In most states and provinces, financial planners must have a certain level of  education. In addition to obtaining the necessary education, financial planners must pass a test to obtain  certification to carry out financial-planning activities on behalf of their clients. Financial planners are  usually required to take continuing-education classes every year to maintain their certification. While  taking continuing-education classes may enhance the financial planners' reputations, this is not the  primary reason for taking the classes. Financial planners don't take continuing-education classes every  year so they can train their employees or so they can start new businesses.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 92. Who is most likely going to need a college degree and a financial certification to perform his/her job  duties?  
 A. Ted Weston, Production Specialist, National Express International  
 B. Ken Dusseldorf, Lead Teller, Main Street Bank  
 C. Lola McGinn, Bookkeeper, Toothman Dental Office  
 D. Carol Hershberger, Financial Analyst, CCB Corporation  
 ANSWER: D - Carol Hershberger, Financial Analyst, CCB Corporation. Financial analysts are typically required to  obtain a college degree and additional professional certification, such as a Certified Financial Analyst  certification (CFA). Bank tellers and bookkeepers often obtain special certifications to perform their  duties; however, many businesses do not require these individuals to have college degrees to obtain  their jobs. A production specialist works in operations rather than in finance.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 93. Which of the following professional relationships is most likely to be successful:  
 A. Competing financial planners socialize at professional association meetings.  
 B. An investment planner takes donuts to a tax accountant every Monday.  
 C. A trust officer sends birthday and holiday cards to her clients.  
 D. A real estate agent and an insurance broker refer clients to each other.  
 ANSWER: D - A real estate agent and an insurance broker refer clients to each other. Relationships among business  professionals are most likely to survive and be successful when everyone involved benefits in a  substantial way. One common way to build mutually beneficial relationships is to refer clients to each  other. While taking donuts to other finance professionals, sending cards to clients, and socializing with  each other at professional association meetings can help to build professional relationships, those  methods are not as likely to be successful in building enduring relationships as sharing clients with each  other.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 94. Which of the following is an ethical issue resulting from internal risks:  
 A. Selecting an insurance company that considers paying fines a cost of doing business  
 B. Revealing discounted expenses  
 C. Providing incomplete data for audits  
 D. Boycotting the use of an insurance company that has a reputation for not correcting its mistakes  
 ANSWER: C - Providing incomplete data for audits. Ethical risk management must be implemented by everyone in an  organization to protect the company's credibility with its stakeholders. By providing incomplete data for  audits, employees are acting unethically and risking the company's future existence. Revealing  discounted expenses is an ethical action. Using or not using insurance companies represents external  risks for a business.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 95. To reduce the risk of loss due to fire or power outages, a financial business should protect its computer  data by  
 A. conducting backup procedures. 
 B. using encryption techniques. 
 C. implementing an authorization process.  
 D. monitoring data-transmission rates.  
 ANSWER: A - Conducting backup procedures. Backup procedures involve duplicating computer entries, records, and  transactions on a regular basis and storing the duplicate files in a different location. By having backup  files, the business can retrieve information that might be lost due to a computer crash, a power outage, or  a fire. Encryption is the process of transforming information into a secret code so that only the recipient  can read it. An authorization process is a way to limit the access to certain information. Using encryption  techniques, implementing an authorization process, and monitoring data-transmission rates are not ways  in which a business can protect its computer data from loss due to fire or power outages.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 96. What risk is being avoided when financial institutions use cloud computing?  
 A. Loss of customers risk 
 B. Pure risk 
 C. Return on investment risk  
 D. Speculative risk  
 ANSWER: C - Return on investment risk. Cloud computing keeps businesses from having to invest in computer  hardware, such as servers, and software, thereby avoiding return on investment risk. Instead, businesses  pay a provider only for the services that they use—much like paying an electric bill. The contract with the  provider can be ended at any time. Customers will probably receive better service since the business is  not having down time when its computers malfunction. Speculative risk is the chance of loss or gain.  Pure risk exists when, if something happens, it will result in a loss.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 97. How does forming a captive insurance company typically impact a corporation's federal tax liability?  
 A. Eliminates the corporation's state tax liabilities  
 B. Increases tax due on the captive's loss reserves  
 C. Increases the corporation's sales tax liabilities  
 D. Reduces tax due on the captive's premiums  
 ANSWER: D - Reduces tax due on the captive's premiums. Even if it is not associated with an insurance company, an  individual company, industry, or association may create a captive insurance company to specifically  protect its parent group(s). The captive insurer aids its parent group(s) by reducing premium expenses,  freeing up capital, and covering risks not commonly addressed by the greater insurance company. In  addition, forming a captive insurance company can reduce, eliminate, or defer federal taxes due on the  corporation's insurance premiums. A captive insurer typically decreases the tax due on a company's loss  reserves. Forming a captive insurance company does not typically increase the corporation's sales tax  liabilities, nor does it eliminate the corporation's state tax liabilities.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 98. An employee with the DPB Company left a small box in the middle of the business's reception area.  Unfortunately, a client did not see the box, fell, and was seriously injured. Now, the DPB Company must  pay several thousand dollars to cover the client's medical bills. This hurts the company's financial well- being. What internal steps could the company have taken to control the risk associated with this type of  financial loss?  
 A. Implement and monitor safety policies  
 B. Purchase and maintain a crime insurance policy  
 C. Review and evaluate health insurance options  
 D. Develop and follow a detailed business plan  
 ANSWER: A - Implement and monitor safety policies. Businesses can take many actions to control their level of risk.  Developing, implementing, and monitoring specific safety policies is one way to lower risks associated  with accidents in the workplace. Accidents can be costly to the business, especially if it does not carry  sufficient comprehensive property insurance to cover these types of situations and the severe injuries  that may result. Crime insurance policies protect businesses from losses associated with theft. Health  insurance is a benefit that businesses offer to their employees to help offset medical expenses. A  business plan is the written business model, which shows how the business works now and how it is  intended to work in the future.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 99. Why are financial institutions using tokenization?  
 A. To provide incentives for increased investing  
 B. To create credit cards  
 C. To protect online transactions  
 D. To overcome government-regulated quotas  
 ANSWER: C - To protect online transactions. Tokenization is the process of substituting a random number in place of  an account number to process the transaction online. In this way, financial institutions are able to protect  customer data from fraud. Credit-card creation, provision of incentives, and government-required quotas  are not aspects of tokenization.  

1095.FINANCE CLUSTER: 100. A small-business manager who considers how a one-person reduction in office staff could impact the rest  of his/her company is demonstrating  
 A. job-knowledge skills. 
 B. technical skills. 
 C. interpersonal skills.  
 D. conceptual skills. 
 ANSWER: D - Conceptual skills. Conceptual skills help managers to see the “big picture.” Managers must be able to  look at the organization as a whole and understand how the various parts of the organization are  interrelated; they must anticipate how a change in one department could impact all the others. Technical  skills help managers to understand the specialized aspects of jobs. Interpersonal skills help managers to  communicate, interact, and build relationships with others. Job-knowledge skills are the specialized body  of information that enables supervisors and managers to do their particular jobs.  

